DUBAI: Lady Gaga took to social media to unveil the latest launch from her beauty line, Haus Laboratories by Lady Gaga, via a campaign video on Instagram. In the clip, the US pop star and actress can be seen wearing a design from Dubai-based Lebanese womenswear designer Lama Jouni. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The “Bad Romance” hitmaker announced the launch of the Italian Glam Highlighter Brush from the aptly titled the Casa Gaga Italian Glam Collection wearing a black off-the-shoulder creation with long sleeves, which she paired with solitaire earrings and a statement cocktail ring. A post shared by LAMA JOUNI (@lamajouniofficial) Jouni founded her eponymous label in November 2013 in Paris. She initially moved to the French capital in 2007 to pursue her dream of establishing a name in the fashion industry internationally by studying at Parsons Paris. Her journey continued after her studies when she trained at some of the most respected fashion houses such as Balmain, Rad Hourani and Reed Krakoff, which helped her develop her own unique style of bold, feminine designs. A post shared by LAMA JOUNI (@lamajouniofficial) Her creations have been worn by the likes of Lebanese singer Dana Hourani, Egyptian actress Nelly Karim and Italian social media influencer Valentina Ferragni, to name a few. Lady Gaga, born Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta, is no stranger to Middle Eastern designers. In fact, the “House of Gucci” actress, who stars as the infamous Patrizia Reggiani Martinelli, the ex-wife of Gucci heir Maurizio Gucci convicted with his murder in the highly anticipated Ridley Scott film out Nov. 24, has sported regional designers on red carpets, during performances and on screen on plenty of occasions, such as Emirati fashion house Khyeli and Saudi-led label Ashi Studio. Just recently, the actress and singer stepped out wearing a crystal-embellished dress by Lebanese designer Georges Hobeika. Additionally, she counted the late Tunisian couturier Azzedine Alaia as one of the closest people to her. Who can forget the custom white, shimmering frock paired with red rubber gloves that she wore to the 2015 Academy Awards? The 35-year-old was understandably devastated when he passed away in Paris in 2017, taking to Instagram to pay tribute to the iconic couturier. She also went on to honor the designer at the American Music Awards, which took place just one day after his passing.