RIYADH: What is considered to be the biggest car show in the region opened its doors to the public on Thursday displaying more than 600 exotic and rare automobiles in one venue for all eyes to see. The Riyadh Car Show will be held daily from 4-11 p.m. through Nov. 28 as entry tickets cost SR150 ($40). “We didn’t face any difficulty so far, even with over 600 cars here,” event organizer Meshael Alamoodi said. “This is the biggest car event in the Middle East and for the first time, Ferrari is participating with us, which is a huge deal, along with two ‘Made in Saudi’ car manufacturers.” Car enthusiasts will be able to see classic and modern sports cars from prestigious manufacturers such as Ferrari, Lamborghini, Pagani, Bugatti, and even some limited edition carmakers. “We are honored to be invited to this event and it looks absolutely fantastic,” British businessman David Brown, owner of David Brown Automotive, said. “We look forward to showing our limited edition car, the Speedback GT, to the Saudi people.” The Riyadh Car Show rivals some of the biggest car shows in the world, such as Concours d’Elegance which is held annually in the US and Switzerland, according to Brown. “I think the Riyadh Car Show fares extremely well in my opinion,” he said. “All car shows are different in style but this one has a really friendly feel to it.” Thomas Lee, a participant representing Italian car manufacturer Pagani, told Arab News: “Finally after two years, people can start sharing their passion for cars again and we at Pagani hope to play our part.” One of the show’s main attractions is the Pagani Museum, which will be the carmaker’s first time organizing it in the Middle East. A dedicated heritage zone will also be showcasing more than 150 classic cars and is expected to gain plenty of attention. “This is the first time I’ve seen so many cars at the same time in all these specs and options,” Lee said. “The organization is amazing, and as this is a really huge event with so many brands managed in such a short time. It’s quite impressive.” Three cars are expected to launch for the first time at the Riyadh Car Show, including the official unveiling of a Ferrari that has been in the works for some time. An exhibition on display at the VIP lounge will showcase the most expensive car in history — valued at SR200-300 million ($53.3-80 million) — in addition to a number of cars worth more than SR80 million ($21.32 million) that will go on sale. An international car auction will be held at the car show under the management and expertise of the British auction house Silverstone. Organizers have encouraged participants to register their own cars for auction, whether they are classic, previously restored, in good condition, tuned, customized or left stock. On Nov. 26-27, the “Scuderia Ferrari” festival will be held with Formula 1 professional drivers expected to make an appearance.