RIYADH: In accordance with its ongoing efforts to provide comprehensive assistance to the people of Yemen, the King Salman Center for Relief and Humanitarian Aid has established artificial limbs centers in several Yemeni governorates. The main objective of these centers is to provide amputees and other patients with physical disabilities high-quality prosthetic limbs and rehabilitation services free of charge, while also training local staff to provide the devices and support the patients’ needs in improving their mobility and quality of life. To date, these centers have given hope and healing to more than 25,000 beneficiaries. In Marib, KSrelief implemented the artificial limbs project in the Marib General Hospital over six phases. The center secures and fits prosthetic limbs in accordance with the highest international standards and has employed local workers to provide rehabilitation services to a total of 8,132 patients. Hiring and retaining local staff not only provides jobs, but also ensures the availability of a sustainable workforce moving forward. KSrelief has also helped to establish an artificial limbs center in Aden over four implementation stages. It has provided specialist equipment, building maintenance, physical rehabilitation services and individual patient treatment plans. The program gives compensatory health assistance to aid patients in their daily lives and help them reintegrate into their communities. Patients also receive medical follow-up care and other services. The center has trained and improved the capacities of its medical and technical staff, and has provided services to 5,979 beneficiaries. In Taiz, KSrelief has implemented a project to set up and operate an artificial limbs center over three phases. It produces a wide range of prosthetic devices, provides physical and psychological rehabilitation for patients, and meets patients’ medical and non-medical needs. A total of 8,530 patients have received services at the Taiz center. The project in Seiyun, Hadramawt Governorate, has involved two phases. Activities included the preparation of the building, obtaining medical and non-medical equipment, and securing the basic requirements for operating the center. Like the other locations, the Seiyun artificial limbs center also manufactures prosthetic devices, provides physical rehabilitation services and trains medical staff. Thus far, the center has assisted 3,331 individuals. These centers are part of Saudi Arabia’s commitment to providing, through KSrelief, comprehensive medical services to alleviate the suffering of the Yemeni people, particularly those with injuries and special needs that require advanced healthcare. To date, KSrelief has implemented, along with its many humanitarian partners, more than 290 medical sector projects in Yemen, providing specialized medical assistance to many thousands of people in need.