LONDON: A former Australian international speaking before Thursday’s big game in Sydney between the Socceroos and Saudi Arabia had been dismissive of the visitors’ chances. They might have won all four games in Group B going into the game, he thought, but they didn’t like playing the physical and aggressive Australians, as three defeats in three games down under had shown. So the 0-0 draw was a better result for the visitors than the hosts. As the teams came out amid the pouring rain on Thursday, Saudi fans watching back home could have been forgiven for feeling some trepidation. After two years of football that had taken place exclusively in the Middle East, these were very foreign conditions for the Green Falcons — quite cool and very wet. It was the toughest test so far in this World Cup qualification, playing away against a team whose October defeat in Japan had ended a run of 11 successive wins. It was a test that was passed in style. This was a mature, aggressive and intelligent performance that showed the improvements that the team have made under coach Herve Renard. The first few minutes were nervy with the Saudis struggling to live with the tempo set by the home side but they soon settled down. Here was a team that was pressuring the Australians, getting stuck in and chasing them down. Here was a team that looked resilient and, if you can match the Socceroos in terms of work-rate and physicality, then the technical ability and the likes of Salem Al-Dossari and Salman Al-Faraj are always going to give you a chance. For a long time, Australia were reduced to hopeful balls forward and struggled to create clear chances against a team that knew it would have to defend but was happy to go toe-to-toe with the hosts. All of a sudden, around the hour mark, the chances came for Australia, three in quick succession. There had been worries over the absence of goalkeeper Mohammed Al-Owais due to injury and Renard plumped for Mohammed Al-Rubaie for only his third cap. The Al-Ahli man was equal to the task with three crucial saves. Australia had their head of steam and were starting to ask questions of the defence, stretching the play and drawing fouls. Saudi Arabia needed to step up. Just when the pressure started to be applied, the three-time Asian champions slipped out of the shackles and started to play. However, the final ball was lacking with 19 minutes remaining when Nasser Al-Dawsari’s left-sided cross from a good position was high and long — not for the last time — leaving many to wonder what would have happened if left-back Yasser Al-Shahrani had been fit. The chances improved. A poor clearance found Mohammed Kanno just outside the area but, despite a number of options for a pass, the Al-Hilal midfielder blasted over. Al-Faraj forced a rare diving save from Maty Ryan, and then came a better chance as Al-Dossari did the same with 10 minutes left with the best move of the game. Finally, substitute Saad Al-Shehri, unmarked from a great position, headed wide. Australia were hanging on but with the full-time looming, the action started to peter out. Saudi Arabia were always going to be happy with a point that keeps them three points above Australia at the halfway stage of the group. They will take more than a point from this game though. Despite missing a number of their best players, despite the long trip, wet conditions and strong host, Saudi Arabia gave as good as they got. They now go to Vietnam with even more confidence. Win in Hanoi and they will have 16 points from six games. There is still a long way to go to Qatar but there was a lot of good work done on Thursday.