DOHA: American journalist Danny Fenster said he was healthy and happy to be going home after he was freed from prison in Myanmar.
	He flew to Qatar on Monday, following negotiations between former US diplomat Bill Richardson and the ruling military junta.
	Fenster, 37, the managing editor of independent online magazine Frontier Myanmar, looked frail three days after he was sentenced to 11 years in prison for incitement and violations of laws on immigration and unlawful assembly. He had been detained since May.
	But he told reporters on the tarmac at Hamad International Airport in Doha that he felt well and had not been beaten or starved while in captivity.
	“I feel great and am really happy to be on my way home. I’m incredibly happy for everything Bill has done,” Fenster, wearing a red woollen hat, loose-fitting trousers and a white protective facemask, said after flying to Doha with Richardson by jet.
	“You just go a little stir crazy and the longer it drags on the more worried you are that it’s just never going to end. That was the biggest concern, staying sane through that.”
	Asked if he was mistreated, he said: “I was arrested and held in captivity for no reason, so I suppose so. But physically, I was healthy. I wasn’t starved or beaten.”
	Myanmar’s military-owned Myawaddy TV said Fenster had been granted an amnesty following requests from Richardson and two Japanese representatives “to maintain the friendship between the countries and to emphasize humanitarian grounds.”
	Fenster was among dozens of media workers detained in Myanmar since a Feb. 1 coup that led to an outpouring of public anger over the military’s abrupt end to a decade of tentative steps toward democracy. Myanmar’s military has accused many media outlets of incitement and spreading false information.
	The United Nations hailed Fenster’s release as a “positive step” but called for at least 47 other journalists in detention to be freed immediately, UN spokesman Farhan Haq said in New York.
	Fenster said efforts to secure other journalists’ release would continue.
	“We’re going to keep the focus on them as much as possible and do everything we can to lobby on their behalf. We’re still trying really hard to get them out of there,” he said.
	According to rights group Assistance Association for Political Prisoners, 10,143 people have been arrested since the coup and 1,260 people killed in violence in Myanmar, most of them in a crackdown by security forces on protests and dissent.
	US Secretary of State Antony Blinken commended US officials as well as Richardson for facilitating Fenster’s release and said Washington would “continue to call for the release of others who remain unjustly imprisoned.”
	Fenster’s editor-in-chief, Thomas Kean, expressed relief that he had been freed, and said he was one of many journalists “unjustly arrested simply for doing their job” in Myanmar.
	Fenster’s brother, Bryan, said the family was overjoyed.
	“We cannot wait to hold him in our arms. We are tremendously grateful to all the people who have helped secure his release,” he said.
	Fenster was the first Western journalist in years sentenced to prison in Myanmar, where the coup against the elected government of Nobel Peace laureate Aung San Suu Kyi has left the country in chaos.
	Richardson, a former New Mexico governor, US energy secretary and US ambassador to the United Nations, visited Myanmar in a humanitarian capacity on Nov. 2, offering COVID-19 assistance.
	He is one of only a few foreigners to have met junta leader Min Aung Hlaing in Myanmar since the coup, and said his discussions with Myanmar’s government on humanitarian matters and vaccines had helped secure Fenster’s release.
	A source familiar with Richardson’s trip to pick up Fenster said it was arranged without the knowledge of the State Department or the US embassy in Yangon. The source said some State Department officials had at first had concerns about the initial visit by Richardson to Myanmar.
	A State Department spokesperson did not immediately respond to a request for comment. 