DUBAI: Quite how Larry David — or, at least, the fictionalized version he portrays in the sitcom “Curb Your Enthusiasm” — has become so universally popular is still a mystery, 21 years on from the pilot episode. He’s petty, mean-spirited, unable to accept blame, hypocritical, and exasperating. He’s unreasonably wealthy and does little-to-no work. He’s also one of the funniest characters on TV. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Season 11 is — judging by the first two episodes — sticking pretty, pretty faithfully to the formula. Convoluted — though believable in context — plot twists force Larry into situations where he’s forced to choose between what’s ethical and self-preservation/self-interest. He chooses the latter.   This series jumps straight into its multi-episode dilemma: A dead body found in Larry’s pool turns out to be a burglar who tripped and hit his head fleeing Larry’s house. That pool, according to local regulations, should have had a fence around it, and when the late burglar’s brother finds that out, he blackmails Larry into casting his teenage daughter in “Young Larry” — a show Larry is pitching to Netflix based on his own adolescence and young adulthood. The daughter is a shockingly bad actress, but Larry insists to his casting team that she’s perfect for the part, much to their confusion, since she is almost the exact physical opposite of the character she’s supposed to be playing.   Then there are the minor stories, focused on the hilarious minutiae of the lives of Larry and his friends: Larry is outraged when someone sits on a sofa too hard, causing Larry to spill his wine and ruin the sofa. Larry is outraged when he’s accused of insensitivity for reminding someone with dementia that they owe him money. Larry is outraged when his girlfriend no longer finds him attractive after he walks into a glass door. Larry is outraged. And that’s good news for the rest of us. The supporting cast are as delightfully flawed and outrageous as usual, and there’s the always-fun sideshow of guest stars such as Lucy Liu, Albert Brooks and Jon Hamm playing fictionalized versions of themselves. But the heart of the show is the man apparently without a heart, Larry David. Long may he continue to upset everyone.