DUBAI: French-Algerian singer Lolo Zouai is set to drop the studio version of her latest single “Scooter” this week. The US-based artist, who splits her time between Brooklyn and San Francisco, announced the news on Instagram, alongside a clip of a live performance of the song in Paris. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle “’Scooter’ drops Nov. 3! I recorded a full live performance while I was in Paris that’s out now on @brutofficiel,” she wrote to her 276,000 Instagram followers, adding that the studio version of the song “goes crazy.” A post shared by Lolo Zouai (@lolozouai) The 26-year-old rising star initially teased the song, which talks about cruising down Paris’s cobbled streets in an electric scooter, last year — something she was quick to remind her legion of loyal fans on Twitter. “I teased scooter a year ago, remember?” she captioned a throwback video of herself nodding her head to a snippet of the new song playing in the background. Naturally, the part-Algerian singer’s fans are eager for the studio version of the single to hit streaming services. I teased scooter a year ago remember pic.twitter.com/0B664iUPxC — LOLO ZOUAI (@LoloZouai) October 30, 2021 “’Scooter’ is literally my favorite song right now and it’s not even out yet,” wrote one user on Twitter. “’Scooter’ is so good, I can’t wait for the studio version,” another added. Zouai, who was born Laureen Zouai to a French mother and an Algerian father in Paris, certainly has a lot to look forward to this year. In addition to having a new album in the works, the artist is slated to open for British-Albanian crooner Dua Lipa’s hotly-anticipated “Future Nostalgia” tour in 2022. A post shared by Lolo Zouai (@lolozouai) It appears that the fashion world is starting to take note of the singer too. The “High Highs to Low, Lows” hitmaker is a Coach favorite and has appeared in several of the American brand’s campaigns. She also has advertorials for Tommy Jeans under her belt and previously teamed up with sportswear giant Adidas alongside other notable figures hailing from France, including Manchester United footballer Paul Pogba and rappers Vald and Dinos, for the brand’s “Change is a Team Sport” campaign. Just last month, the star sat on the front row of the Dior show at Paris Fashion Week. Meanwhile, when she’s not sitting front row, she can be found performing at some of the hottest tickets during Fashion Month. In the past she has performed at New York Fashion Week for Saint Laurent as well as at KidSuper’s surreal Spring 2021 show.