DUBAI: Jameela Jamil can officially add music video director to her CV. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle British singer James Blake recently dropped the music video for his latest single “Famous Last Words” from his new album, “Friends That Break Your Heart,” and the clip was directed by the British-Indian-Pakistani actress and activist. A post shared by Jameela Jamil (@jameelajamilofficial) However, shortly after the video’s release, Jamil, who is in a relationship with Blake, took to social media to reveal that she was initially hesitant to announce her involvement with the music video, sharing that the “internet is so much harsher on women.” She wrote on Twitter: “Because the internet is so much harsher on women, we held back on saying I directed James’ last video. But now that people like the video on its own I can say that I loved dreaming up this idea and then directing it, with my friend Chris, and an amazing crew for @jamesblake,” prompting Blake to simply respond “You killed it.” The cinematic video sees the singer go on a journey from a hospital bed to the ocean. In the new video, a bed-ridden Blake is seen with an oxygen mask on his bruise-covered face. As the clip progresses, the artist finds the strength to leave hospital and head toward the beach. In addition to directing the music video, Jameel also helped produce the song. A post shared by Jameela Jamil (@jameelajamilofficial) She has several writing credits on Blake’s fifth studio album, a fact that she has had to vehemently defend on social media. Shortly after the album’s release, Jamil took to social media to slam critics questioning her production credits. “A lot of mostly women insisting I couldn’t possibly have actually worked on my boyfriend’s music, and that he must have just credited me to be nice,” tweeted Jamil in response to the social media critics. “I was a DJ for eight years, and studied music for six years before that. You are part of the problem of why women don’t pursue producing,” she added. She followed up her statement on Instagram, writing: “An additional hilarious side to this misogyny is that they only don’t believe in my musical input when they love the songs. If they don’t like a song then suddenly I CAN produce and it’s all my fault, and I produced the whole thing alone!”