DUBAI: Rising Giants Network, a Middle East storytelling company specializing in Arabic-language podcasts, such as “Beirut Blast,” has released a report on usage in Saudi Arabia. Titled “Podcast Consumption in Saudi Arabia 2021,” the study focuses on consumption, language, and personal preferences, and listening habits. Basel Anabtawi, chief executive officer and co-founder of Rising Giants Network, told Arab News: “I think it’s striking to see the growth of consumption year on year — it shows that podcasting is on a trajectory that is outperforming itself every year.” The report showed that in Saudi Arabia, 67 percent of podcast listeners tuned in at least once a week, 30 percent of them listened to podcasts on a daily basis, while 22 percent did so three times a week. Those aged 25 to 34 were found to be most likely to listen to podcasts every week (72 percent) followed by those aged 45 to 54 (71 percent), proving that younger audiences were not alone in listening to podcasts. In terms of platforms, Apple dominated with 85 percent of podcast listeners. Anabtawi said that this could be due to the high penetration of iPhones among podcast listeners considering the Apple Podcasts app came preloaded on each device. However, Anghami was growing in popularity in the Kingdom with 32 percent of those questioned saying it was their favorite platform, possibly due to the company’s recent investments in Lebanese artist Elissa’s podcast, added Anabtawi. Despite Spotify’s investments in the region, including collaborations with Saudi-based Kuwaiti pop star Bader Al-Shuaibi, Jordanian musical artist Issam Al-Najjar, and a Ramadan-themed podcast with the Obamas, only 18 percent said they preferred the platform for podcast listening. “Anghami started talking about podcasts in the region as far back as 2017. I still remember my first meeting with Anghami back when I had the ‘Basel Meets’ podcast,” he said. “Since then, they have invested in content with major celebrities which, I think, may have contributed to the awareness of podcasts overall.” Spotify was relatively new in the region, but Anabtawi added: “I wouldn’t discredit them just yet. They have major exclusives globally and I assume that this strategy will ultimately be duplicated in the Middle East and North Africa region as well.” When it came to language preferences, an overwhelming majority of those quizzed for the report said Arabic was the main language of their favorite podcasts compared to around 20 percent who preferred English. Unlike watching shows or movies, listening to podcasts was revealed to be a passive activity with 41 percent tuning in while doing housework or chores, 36 percent when driving, 31 percent on their way to work, and 28 percent while getting ready in the morning.   The report showed that 59 percent of listeners were drawn by the themes or topics covered in the podcast, 20 percent by the host, and 17 percent by show guests. Entertainment was the most popular genre followed by art, sports, religion, news, well-being, current affairs, education, comedy, and technology. Anabtawi said: “It (the report) shows that podcasting is growing and that there is a significant and engaged audience consuming long-form content. The retention provided by podcasting is unparalleled and can truly help a brand build a strong relationship with the audience through native brand integration with podcasts who are popular in certain verticals.” According to a separate study, 90 percent of podcast listeners trusted the medium over any other. Anabtawi pointed out that it was important for brands to take that into consideration, while also keeping in mind that advertising on a podcast should be consistent, frequent, and native. “Although programmatic advertising can be effective, I would look at working directly with the producers of the shows in order to add native messaging into them,” he added. Rising Giants Network works directly with clients to figure out the messaging, target audience, and their preferences. Based on these factors, the company looks at shows that match those needs and the different ways they can integrate the brand. Anabtawi said: “From dedicated episodes to host-read ads, the possibilities are wide and varied.”