DUBAI: Eight of the world’s leading disability golfers are set to battle it out for glory in the European Disabled Golf Association Dubai Finale this week as they take on the same course as the European Tour professionals. To be played alongside the DP World Tour Championship, Dubai, the EDGA Dubai Finale tees off Friday, with the players showcasing their ability over two days on the famous Earth Course at Jumeirah Golf Estates. Ahead of the final Rolex Series event of the year, the Emirates Golf Federation and EDGA announced a significant partnership with the creation of a new UAE Determined Golfers Program. The launch ceremony was attended by EGF Vice President Adel Zarouni, Tony Bennett, president of the European Golf Federation of People of Determination, and DP World ambassador and Ryder Cup legend Ian Poulter. England’s Kipp Popert will go into the Dubai Finale as one of the favorites, given his world No. 1 ranking, but he faces stern competition from world No. 2 Brendan Lawlor (Ireland) and world No. 4 Chris Biggins (US). Canada’s Kurtis Barkley, Italy’s Tomasso Perrino, Belgium’s Adem Wahbi, England’s Mike Browne, and Sweden’s Felix Norrman complete the strong field. The players, who have a range of disabilities, qualified from a pool of 16 for the Dubai Finale. The opportunity to be part of the season-ending weekend reaffirms the European Tour’s commitment to inclusivity within golf. Wahbi, the Belgian golfer, said he was looking forward to teeing off on the Earth Course. “It really is the best place to play golf,” he said. “I’ve met some of the world’s best stars here and I’m really happy to be here. While I’m here to win, I’m not here just to play golf and the most important thing is to have fun.” The EDGA’s calendar consisted of four events in the UK: The Cazoo Open at Celtic Manor Resort, the ISPS HANDA World Disability Invitational presented by Brendan Lawlor at Massereene and Galgorm Castle, the Hero Open at Fairmont St Andrews, and the Cazoo Classic at London Golf Club. Meanwhile, over the next 12 to 18 months, the EGF will work closely with EDGA and the UAE’s golf clubs to put the UAE Determined Golfers Program in place as part of its new partnership. With the expertise from EDGA, assistance from the local golf clubs and support of dedicated partners, this new program is set to provide opportunities for everyone that wants to try the sport of golf. Zarouni said: “This has been a vision that started in 2018 when the UAE was preparing for the Special Olympic World Games in Abu Dhabi. With the help of the UAE golf clubs, People of Determination Centers and the DP World Tour Championship, we are now taking ‘determined golf’ to new heights within the UAE. “It is our goal to make the sport of golf more inclusive for everyone. With this new UAE Determined Golfers Program, the EGF is making golf accessible to everyone no matter their age, gender or ability.”