DUBAI: She’s the first to receive this award: Imaan Hammam is going to be the first recipient of She’s the First’s (STF) inaugural Powerhouse of the Year Award, she announced on Instagram this week. The Moroccan-Egyptian-Dutch supermodel is an ambassador for the grassroots organization that helps empower young women through education around the world, founded by Christen Brandt and Tammy Tibbetts 12 years ago. Its slogan: “We put girls first.” For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The 25-year-old is set to be honored during The Power Party, a virtual charity gala hosted by Erika Henningsen, known for her role as Cady in “Mean Girls” on Broadway, which will take place online on Nov. 18. A post shared by Imaan Hammam (@imaanhammam) Other figures who will be in attendance during the digital bash include American poet Amanda Gorman, who will perform “The Power of Firsts,” a poem she wrote in honor of changemakers in the STF community, as well as Canadian actress Malia Baker. Meanwhile, Muslim rap duo Aint Afraid will wow attendees with a powerful performance. “I am so honored to be receiving the first-ever Powerhouse of the Year Award, standing alongside girls who have been breaking barriers and advancing public health initiatives in their communities as we show the world what true power looks like,” Hammam wrote on Instagram. “Unfortunately, as COVID-19 is still a threat, She’s The First’s services are especially needed as vaccine access in these girls’ communities remains limited. Hitting our goal at The Power Party would enable She’s the First to expand our programs in Latin America and South Asia in 2022, reaching an estimated 3,000 more girls and 15 more grassroots organizations,” she added, encouraging guests to purchase tickets to The Power Party and support the initiative at the link in her Instagram bio. A post shared by Imaan Hammam (@imaanhammam) The catwalk star first teamed up with STF in 2019, when she brought her 1.2 million Instagram followers along on a learning trip to visit young girls in The Gambia.  Hammam opened up about her involvement with the non-profit organization came to be in an interview with i-D Magazine in March. “I was at a point where a lot of great things were happening in my life, and I think I just wanted to really give back,” she said. “I want to help young women, old women, like, women, that’s what I’m really passionate about. And that’s how I met the people from She’s The First, and we actually did our first trip to The Gambia, which was incredible, to be in the field and to meet the girls. And I think that kind of was just like, ‘Oh my God, this is what I want to do. These girls feel like they’re literally my sisters. And I want to support them and help them.’”