JEDDAH: In Saudi Arabia, one in five people are diagnosed with the chronic progressive disease type 2 diabetes. This figure is double the global rate, meaning that the disease represents a serious public health issue for the Kingdom. If ignored, the disease can cause serious medical complications. The usual treatment for controlling blood sugar is regular insulin injections.
	Leading global health company Novo Nordisk recently launched the oral medicine to control blood sugar for type 2 diabetes patients. It is now used in the Kingdom and across the Arab world.
	The announcement was presented in a press conference in Jeddah with the presence of elite international and local endocrinologists, family medicine consultants, and health specialists.
	The pill, GLP-1 RA, is certified by the Saudi Food and Drug Authority. The importance of this revolutionary treatment lies in its pill form. Medical director and quality manager of Novo Nordisk, Motaz Yahya, told Arab News: “The treatment of GLP-1 RA has been there in the market a long time ago in injection form, but our team created this innovative pill to help patients with diabetes to have a normal lifestyle.” • The Kingdom approves pill form GLP-1 RA type 2 diabetes medication. • Almost 70 percent of type 2 diabetes patients in the world cannot reach the required levels of control. • GLP-1 RA pill will help people with type 2 diabetes to control blood sugar and lose weight. GLP-1 also helps patients in three main areas including controlling high blood sugar rates, reducing body weight and avoiding episodes of hypoglycemia. Like other treatments, it also helps patients control the disease at an early stage. How does the GLP-1 pill work?
	Patients with type 2 diabetes have to learn to live with the disease and control it for their whole lives. Dr. Ashraf Ameer, family medicine consultant and CEO of executive medical services at the International Medical Center, said that GLP-1 RA works in the body through four main mechanisms, describing it as a “qualitative leap” in the world of type 2 diabetes medication.
	It is administered once daily, Ameer said. “GLP-1 works through four mechanisms, including preventing the liver from secreting the complex glucagon that is secreted in the blood and causes high sugar levels dramatically.
	“The second mechanism works to stimulate the cells of the pancreas, the beta-cells, to secrete an amount of insulin, and when this amount is secreted into the blood circulation, it breaks down all the sugars, thus it helps the first mechanism in lowering the level of sugar in the blood.
	“The third mechanism helps to empty the stomach by keeping the food in the stomach for a longer period, giving the patient a feeling of early satiety.
	“As for the fourth mechanism, GLP-1 stimulates the satiety centers in the brain, which gives the patient a sense of mental satiety,” Ameer said.