DUBAI: Elie Saab is channeling his creative impulses into new interiors-focused realms. The Beirut-born designer recently added Elie Saab Maison, a lineup of furniture, lighting, rugs, and home accessories, to his portfolio and now the couturier is expanding his lifestyle brand with the launch of a bathroom and surface collection in collaboration with UAE-based RAK Ceramics. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The collection was unveiled during Dubai Design Week, currently underway in Dubai Design District.   “We’ve been working on expanding our business into luxury living for Home and hospitality projects,” shared Elie Saab Jr., the renowned designer’s son who became brand director in 2013. “It became natural to extend the interior brand identity, and Rak Ceramics are in line with our innovative values, and they are perfectly geared towards supporting our ambitions in developing and creating timeless signature collections and that embody the DNA of our brand,” he added.   Elie Saab’s first foray into bathroom furnishings is a luxurious addition to the Paris and Beirut-based brand. The collection features a gilded shower, bathtub, sinks, a toilet, bidet and mirrors with built-in vanity lights, as well as ceramic tiles, flooring and surfaces embossed with the Elie Saab iconography. “Each (design) sets the tone of the house with an impactful style,” said Elie Saab Jr.   Much like the designer’s glamorous evening gowns worn by virtually every major celebrity, the new offering was developed using only the finest and most luxurious materials. Think: Onyx, rosewood, and dark marble finishes. “For every product line we develop, we chose the best partners, expert in their field, to translate our vision of lifestyle into different categories,” said Elie Saab Jr, referring to Rak Ceramics, founded in the UAE in the 1980s.   Elie Saab debuted his first collection of furniture last year, and the ceramics manifested as an organic addition to the creative process. “They go hand in hand,” shared the brand director. “We wouldn’t have launched a ceramics collection if we don’t have a home line,” he added. In line with the brand’s evolution into a full-fledged lifestyle label, Elie Saab has also recently partnered with Dubai real estate giant Emaar Properties to design one-to-four-bedroom luxury apartments long the city’s beachfront.