DUBAI: Gigi Hadid can add another job to her resume: A judge on Bravo’s fashion show “Project Runway.” The part-Palestinian model joined the judging panel on episode four of season 19, titled “Flower Power,” alongside another guest judge, actress Taraji P. Henson. In the episode, the panel judged which hopeful contestant conjured up the best floral-inspired outfit. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Hadid no doubt has plenty of experience to bring to the table as she helped judge a pool of talented, burgeoning designers. Indeed, the 25-year-old has come a long way since her runway debut at Desigual’s Fall 2014 show. Today, the US-Palestinian-Dutch model boasts an impressive fashion CV. A post shared by Gigi Hadid (@gigihadid) In addition to being one of the most sought after fashion stars, the California-bred model, who was crowned International Model of the Year in 2016, has closed and opened runways for renowned fashion houses, fronted high-profile advertising campaigns from Prada to Chanel, landed covers of prestigious publications the world over and helped design collections with the likes of Tommy Hilfiger and Vogue Eyewear. Meanwhile, it’s not the first time that Hadid, born to Palestinian real estate developer Mohamed Hadid and Dutch model and reality television star Yolanda Hadid, was tapped to evaluate how groundbreaking and creative designers are with their creations. Last year, Hadid joined the panel for the LVMH prize for Young Fashion Designers alongside other industry heavyweights, to judge collections from semi-finalists and help select the winning designers. A post shared by Gigi Hadid (@gigihadid) Ahead of the episode, the supermodel shared three pictures from the “Project Runway” set reminding her 71.1 million Instagram followers to tune into the episode when it airs. In the photos, the model can be seen wearing a flower-embellished power suit and holding flashcards. It was Hadid’s first Instagram post since the news of her partner Zayn Malik’s alleged dispute with her mother surfaced. A post shared by Gigi Hadid (@gigihadid) Last week, the British-Pakistani singer pleaded no contest to four charges of harassment against Yolanda and Gigi; he was fined and is “on 90 days probation for each count, totaling 360 days,” TMZ and the BBC reported. While Yolanda alleged in court documents that Zayn “shoved her,” the singer denied having any physical contact with her. The reports were followed by news of the on-again off-again couple’s rumored break-up.