RIYADH: The Saudi Ministry of Interior recently announced that it has started issuing and renewing residency permits on a quarterly basis. Expatriates have welcomed the change, saying it will reduce their financial burden.
The ministry, represented by the General Directorate of Passports and the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Development, made the change to implement last year’s Cabinet decision.
The new mechanism will enable employers to renew residency and work permits for varying periods of three, six, nine and 12 months. Domestic workers are excluded from this change.
The Jawazat clarified that the new service is available on the online platforms of Absher Individual, Absher Business, and Muqeem.
The HR ministry said services related to work permits can be accessed through the Qiwa Platform and the electronic portal for labor services. The new mechanism will enable employers to renew residency and work permits for varying periods of three, six, nine and 12 months. Domestic workers are excluded from this change. The Jawazat clarified that the new service is available on the online platforms of Absher Individual, Absher Business, and Muqeem. Ayman Hassan, an Egyptian expatriate working in Riyadh, said: “This quarterly payment is really very good news for expatriates residing here with their families. Payment of the levy on a yearly basis before iqama renewal is a huge burden on expatriates. Allowing them to pay every three months will help reduce financial burden on them.”
Mohammad Arshad Ali Khan, a teacher at the International Indian Public School, Riyadh said: “This service is a big relief for a huge number of expatriates because many were unable to pay such a huge amount at once. Now quarterly payments will make it easier. We all appreciate the Saudi higher authorities for such a favorable decision.”
Nonie Sagadal Jr., from the Philippines said: “Not only Overseas Filipino Workers will be very happy with this news, but also some OFWs families who have sent their dependants back to Philippines will opt to bring back some of their family members as they have now an easier instalments option. Perhaps now they will consider letting their family members stay on a family visa by using the less burdensome quarterly payments.”