ABU DHABI: The World Triathlon Championship Series Abu Dhabi concluded this weekend at Yas Marina Circuit after welcoming more than 2,000 athletes over two days, with the elite athletes racing on Friday and the community race taking place on Saturday. Italy’s Alessio Rispoli was crowned the winner for the Men’s Sprint Triathlon for ages 30-39 after finishing the course in 1:06:11. This was the triathlete’s first race in Abu Dhabi. “I used to be an elite triathlete in Italy, and recently moved to Dubai to train and coach fellow athletes,” he said. “This is a top race for this particular age group around the world. Because of the organisation, facilities and just everything,” Rispoli said. “I [look forward] to coming back next year.” Representing Ireland, Hilary Hughes took first place in the Women’s Sprint Triathlon category for ages 30-39 with an impressive time of 1:09:42, showcasing her swimming, cycling, and running skills. “It was a fantastic race and it is incredible to be racing here in Abu Dhabi. The course is amazing, you’re on a Formula One track, when would you ever get to do that?” said Hughes. Suhail Al-Arefi, Executive Director of the Events Sector at the Abu Dhabi Sports Council (ADSC) noted the success of the event and said he was already looking ahead to next year’s race. “It was phenomenal to see aspiring and professional triathletes, and the wider community come together in Abu Dhabi to practise this incredible sport,” he said. “The successful hosting and organising of this event further proves how Abu Dhabi is a central and strategic hub for the sporting events industry, and we look forward to hosting the World Triathlon Championship Series Finals in 2022.” “Our wise leadership has made hosting large-scale and strategic events possible with their clear directives and vision,” Al-Arefi said. “Their handling of the COVID-19 pandemic has reassured us of their commitment to our safety and wellbeing, and we are encouraged to relay the same to our participants and attendees. It has been a successful two days, full of excellence and strength, and we are hopeful of the bright future ahead.”