DUBAI: Taylor Swift stopped by two late-night talk shows to mark the release of her re-recorded “Red” album that came out this week, and during her visit to “The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon” the US hitmaker found a chic way to support Arab designers. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The singer — who has given us hits such as “Shake it Off,” “Bad Blood” and “You Belong with Me” — appeared on the show wearing a white Zuhair Murad mini dress from the Lebanese designer’s Resort 2022 collection. The design featured short sleeves and oversized pockets on the front. The dress was bejeweled with gold embellishments along the neckline, sleeves and pockets and Swift accessorized the look with matching gold pumps from Christian Louboutin and Nick Horey earrings. A post shared by The Tonight Show (@fallontonight) The Ras Baalbek-born designer’s Resort 2022 collection drew inspiration from the swinging ‘60s as well as “The Queen’s Gambit” actress Beth Harmon. The line featured long chiffon numbers, scallop-hemmed tunics and cropped trousers, sleek black evening dresses and circle skirts in a contrasting monochrome palette, with the occasional lashings of lilac and pale yellow. Swift re-recorded the beloved 2012 album, which includes hits like “I Knew You Were Trouble,” “22” and “We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together,” because she does not own the masters of any songs on albums she recorded prior to 2019’s “Lover.” By re-recording her hits, the 31-year-old will be able to reclaim control over her masters. A post shared by The Tonight Show (@fallontonight) For the majority of her fruitful career, Swift had a deal with Big Machine Records. She signed a new agreement with Universal Music Group in 2018, which granted her ownership of her master recordings going forward. Her previous catalog at Big Machine was sold to a company owned by music manager Scooter Braun, who acquired the Big Machine label group as part of a reported $300 million deal in 2019. “This is what happens when you sign a deal at 15 to someone for whom the term ‘loyalty’ is clearly just a contractual concept,” Swift wrote on Tumblr in 2019. Braun sold the masters of Swift’s first six albums last year. “Red” marks the second re-release Swift has put out — she re-released “Fearless” in April and has plans to re-record her other albums as well.