Hanadi Alzahrani is an associate hospitality development director at the Red Sea Development Company in Riyadh.
	She is the point of contact between the hotel operators’ technical services team and TRSDC to ensure the secure flow of information.
	She builds partnerships with hotel operators and establishes common objectives that align with TRSDC goals, leads the hotel project from concept stage to design completion from a hospitality perspective in collaboration with the project delivery team, and manages the review process for hotel operators, deviations from hotel design guidelines, and the operator design sign-off process.
	Before joining TRSDC, she worked as a design studio manager with Group C1 from 2016 to 2019. Group C1 specializes in interior design and construction.
	Her role included strategizing methods of securing potential opportunities with the executive team, meeting potential clients and securing multiple projects in the pipeline, developing, preparing, analyzing, and reviewing department budgets, conducting team training on new business guidelines, hiring a design team, conducting performance assessments, and ordering department resources as needed. Her projects included working with Saudia and the General Entertainment Authority.
	She previously worked with Zuhair Fayez Partnership in Jeddah as project coordinator and as account manager from 2008 to 2010. She worked with Jeddah Interior Design and Architecture as an interior designer and project coordinator from 2007 to 2008.
	At Zuhair Fayez Partnership, she acted as a client interface. She built a communication base to keep stakeholders engaged. At Jeddah Interior Design, she created interior and graphic design solutions for commercial and residential projects.
	Alzahrani has a master’s degree in business administration from Webster University, Vienna, and a bachelor’s degree in interior design from Dar Al-Hekma University in Jeddah. She did a certificate course in hotel planning and design from Cornell University last year.
	She has done training courses through INSEAD, USGBC, and PMI-AGC. 