DUBAI: Adriana Lima never fails to exude glamour when she steps out on the red carpet, and this weekend’s star-studded “Dior Designer of Dreams” exhibition in Doha was no different. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle For the occasion, the Brazilian model was photographed wearing an elegant creation from the Middle East. The former Victoria’s Secret model chose a design from Lebanese couturier Georges Chakra’s Fall 2021 collection. The black design featured red satin lining, a structural neckline and a high slit, with ruffled skirt detailing. She accessorized the look with Christian Louboutin pumps and drop earrings from jewelry brand Hanut Singh.   “In the collection, this was my favorite look and on Adriana, she looks absolutely ravishing,” Chakra told Arab News. “The dress is structured and ultra-modern, and with the deep rouge contrasting with the black it gives a statuesque illusion of vibrant life beneath the dark armored surface.” Due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the Aug. 4, 2020, explosion in Beirut’s port area, Chakra did not unveil his Fall 2021 couture collection during the Fédération de la Haute Couture et de la Mode’s official Haute Couture week this year, but presented it in a digital format instead. Much like his previous collections, the Fall 2021 couture offering was an amalgamation of expert tailoring, volume, ruffles, traces of lamé and rich fabrics such as lace, velour de soie, silk organza and gazar. Chakra is one of Lebanon’s top couture designers. His gowns have graced runways in Paris and red carpets in Hollywood, while the entertainment industry’s top talent — including Gabrielle Union, Jennifer Lopez and Letitia Wright — regularly don his creations. His designs have even been featured in films and television shows like “Gossip Girl” — Blake Lively’s character Serena van der Woodsen tied the knot in a dramatic strapless tulle gown designed Chakra in the show’s series finale. For her part, Lima, 40, has pulled off an inimitable lineup of arresting looks by Arab design talent just the past week alone. A post shared by Adriana Lima (@adrianalima) The black tulle caped gown with petal neckline cutouts and gold-embellished detailing from Zuhair Murad’s Resort 2022 collection immediately springs to mind. Lima certainly has a penchant for Arab designers and has been pictured wearing looks from the archives of regional couturiers on plenty of occasions, including at UNICEF’s 2019 Summer Gala in Italy where she opted for a strapless iridescent sequin creation from Rami Kadi. In October, she hit the red carpet for the premiere of “Last Night In Soho” in Los Angeles in a sculptural dress from Lebanese label Azzi & Osta’s Spring 2022 line.