RIYADH: The @Hack conference, one of the largest in the world in the cybersecurity field, kicked off in Riyadh on Nov. 28, with companies from around the world taking part. Ahmed Abdulkhaliq, central area manager of a company related to security systems, told Arab News that the conference is significant to his work because it showcases cutting-edge developments in information and server security.
“I work in maintenance and operation of the security equipment field, and it’s very important for us to know the new technology regarding cybersecurity because most of our work is related to governmental sectors,” Abdulkhaliq said.
Usually hosted in the US and now in the Kingdom, the three-day conference specializes in connecting cybersecurity enthusiasts and companies.
@Hack showcases everything new in the field and offers activities for visitors including training, lectures and competitions. It aims to bring together major cybersecurity companies such as Kaspersky, IBM and Cisco.   About 80 specialized training courses and workshops hosted by global cybersecurity experts are being offered at the conference.
@Hack will also hold competitions, with a total prize fund of SR1 million ($266,000) on offer. There is also an interactive space for exchanging technical opinions, networking and building professional relationships.
In the business hall, more than 170 companies displayed their services and their latest innovations, including major international companies, local government and private sector organizations and emerging technology businesses.
The conference is organized within the activities of the Riyadh Season 2021 by the Saudi Federation for Cybersecurity, Programming and Drones, in partnership with Blackhat and the General Entertainment Authority.   Reham Ahmed, an IT student, said that she heard about @Hack from Blackhat, and is interested in cybersecurity and digital forensics.
“It is my first time attending an event related to cybersecurity, and I saw a lot of big companies here like Starlink. When I heard that @Hack is not in Los Angeles this year but in Riyadh, I knew that this event would be big, and of course, because it’s one of Riyadh Season’s activities,” Ahmed said.
One of the most important strategic objectives of the conference is to enhance the advanced cyber skills of the region’s youth, support them with technical skills in preparation for digital transformation, attract business tourism, and entice technology companies to Riyadh and the Kingdom.