DUBAI: Netflix’s move to venture into gaming made waves as the streaming giant announced earlier this year that it would make a deeper dive into video games as the movie and TV streaming service projected weak subscriber growth. In July, the company hired Mike Verdu, ex-Facebook vice president, as VP of game development reporting to Chief Operating Officer Greg Peters. Today, Verdu announced in a blog post that Netflix is taking its first step in launching games on mobile to the world. Starting today, members everywhere can play five mobile games: “Stranger Things: 1984,” “Stranger Things 3: The Game,” “Shooting Hoop,” “Card Blast,” and “Teeter Up.” “We’re in the early days of creating a great gaming experience, and we’re excited to take you on this journey with us,” he said. Netflix games are now available to download on the Google App store for all members on Android devices globally. Starting tomorrow, Netflix mobile games will begin slowly rolling out on the Netflix app. “While this is just the beginning of a long journey, we’re excited to provide a gaming experience that is differentiated from what is available today — exclusive mobile games with no ads, no in-app payments, included with your Netflix membership,” the company said. When users log into their Netflix profile, Android members will see a dedicated games row and games tab where they can select any game to download and play. Once they have downloaded it from the Google App store, the game will appear on both the home screen of their Android device and within the Netflix mobile app. All games will request users to authenticate their membership in-game in order to play. The company has not yet commented on the availability of Netflix games on Apple mobile devices. The games are designed for any level of gamer, from those who have never played before to avid gamers. Verdu added: “And we’re just getting started. We’re excited to continue improving our mobile gaming experience and adding to our entertainment offering in the months ahead.”