Riyadh: The Saudi Research and Media Group (SRMG) has appointed the Saudi Media Company (SMC), a leader in digital advertising sales across the Middle East, as its exclusive media representative. Based on the agreement, SMC will handle commercial advertising sales for all SRMG brands and platforms, including audio-visual, print and digital, effective November 8th, 2021. SMC is one of the leading advertising sales providers with extensive experience in diverse advertising solutions. A pioneer in the adoption of digital advancements and technologies, SMC has solidified its leadership position in the Middle East’s advertising sector. This partnership will strengthen SRMG's position as a leading premium content provider, publisher and broadcaster by providing a wider reach and new opportunities to trailblazing brands and advertisers across markets. Jomana R. Al-Rashid, Chief Executive Officer, Saudi Research and Media Group, said: "We have recently announced our transformation strategy to become a data led, technology enabled, digital-first, social-first media hub, and to create quality smart content that is unique and exclusive, reinforcing SRMG’s position as the leading trusted source for news and information from and to the Middle East. “We have set ambitious performance targets for ourselves, and strategic partnerships have always been a critical success factor. With the signing of this agreement, we are announcing SMC as a key strategic partner to SRMG. This partnership allows for optimization, efficiencies, and revenue enhancement that ultimately will result in a better experience for our users and advertisers, as well as yield higher returns for our shareholders. We are excited about this partnership and eager to begin working together with the teams at SMC.” Mohammed Alkhereiji, Chairman, Saudi Media Company, said: “This partnership reinforces SMC’s objectives of giving clients in the region access to our extensive experience in digital transformation and data analysis, including the use of artificial intelligence. Through this, we can   stimulate creativity and competitiveness and unlock innovative opportunities provided by our company’s expanding network and strategic services. With such partnerships, we aim to strengthen SMC’s regional position and support the advertising sector’s development by introducing exceptional solutions for media outlets, including their digital platforms and social networks. “This partnership also reinforces SMC's portfolio of premium media outlets and provides new ways for our clients to reach their target audiences. We’re looking forward to exploring innovative opportunities across the full breadth of SRMG’s media titles, including its high-growth digital and social platforms.” Driven by a newly appointed executive team, and listed on the Tadawul Saudi Stock Exchange in Riyadh, SRMG is focused on delivering original, exclusive and premium content to consumers through digital and social platforms, as well as strengthening its cable and satellite reach. SRMG recently announced a growth strategy which leverages the Group’s data and technology strengths to develop new products and services, enhance monetization capabilities and diversify revenue streams. SRMG owns more than 30 Tier-1 media titles and outlets including: Asharq Al-Awsat, Asharq News and Arab News, among others.