RIYADH: The Saudi Consumer Protection Association announced on Monday the launch of its strategic plan for the years 2021-2024 under the slogan “Improving the Consumer Experience in the Saudi Market.”
	Chairman of the executive council of the association, Abdullah Al-Naim, indicated that the strategic plan includes four objectives.
	The first is to develop spending efficiency plans and enhance financial sustainability to ensure that the national supervisory environment aligns with international practices for long-term sustainable growth.
	The second objective is to develop the association’s outputs through programs and activities of high value to the consumer in a way that enhances the association’s impact on society and develops special services for its members.
	The third objective is to attain the highest standards of national and global governance while working to achieve institutional excellence and develop and implement internal policies, procedures, and information systems to maximize efficiency. One of the plan’s objective is to enhance financial sustainability to ensure that the national supervisory environment aligns with international practices for long-term sustainable growth. The last objective is the development of human capabilities in the association with a view to relying more on employees’ abilities to implement strategic projects. The aim will be to empower employees, allow them to benefit from modern work systems, and create moral and material incentives for excellence and high performance.
	Secretary-General of the Saudi Consumer Protection Association, Nasser Fahd, added that the association is determined to achieve the strategic objectives by adopting programs, in cooperation with its partners in the public and private sectors, to educate consumers about their rights and improve their experience. These programs will grant partners accreditation certificates after fulfilling the necessary conditions.
	Fahd stressed that the association’s strategic plan will be implemented per the association’s values, with maximum transparency in order to inspire confidence within the community.