RIYADH: Saudi Arabia’s Team Kafo claimed second place at the 2021 Global Goals World Cup tournament in Reykjavik, Iceland — an event that looks to raise awareness of sustainability through sports. The annual competition was launched in 2015 to spread awareness of the UN’s 17 Sustainable Development Goals, inviting teams from around the world to build community campaigns on their chosen SDG before competing in five-a-side football tournaments to determine regional champions, who would later meet at a grand final. This year’s final was held in Reykjavik last week, taking place alongside the Reykjavik Global Forum, which offers a platform for female leaders to discuss and share ideas and solutions on how to advance society. After winning matches against several local teams, Team Kafo were finally beaten by another Icelandic side, Team Origo, in the deciding match. They equaled the performance of the Saudi Greens, who were runners-up at the 2019 tournament in New York City. Made up of students and private sector employees aged between 22 and 26, Team Kafo was formed in 2019. They secured their place at the finals by winning the inaugural Global Goals World Cup in Saudi Arabia, which was hosted by the Saudi Sports for All Federation in September. After spending nine months campaigning for SDG 3 — to ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages — Team Kafo beat 25 other teams at the qualifying tournament in Riyadh, which took into consideration their activism as well as their sporting performance. “We are absolutely thrilled for this amazing group of young women, who have shown the world how talented and motivated they are,” said Shaima Saleh Al-Husseini, managing director of the Saudi Sports For All Federation. “We are all inspired by Team Kafo’s dedication, skill and passion for sport and sustainability, and well-being, and they should be justifiably proud of this remarkable achievement. They have proved yet again that our country’s women are capable of great things.” The establishment of the team, and the subsequent launch of Global Goals World Cup Saudi Arabia, are among the Saudi Sports For All Federation’s ongoing efforts to encourage female sports participation across the Kingdom. Other initiatives have included the launch of the Women’s Football League and the Women’s Fitness Festival, as well as the appointment of numerous women as official Sports For All ambassadors — all part of a wider mission to support people around the country in taking up more active lifestyles, regardless of age, gender or ability. Supported by the Ministry of Sport, the Saudi Sports For All Federation is mandated by Vision 2030’s Quality of Life Program to increase the proportion of people in the Kingdom exercising at least once a week to 40 percent by 2030.