Dr. Fatima Al-Slail has been selected as a member of the WHO Technical Advisory Group of Experts on Diabetes.
	The TAG-D was established in August 2021 to further WHO’s leadership in promoting global action against diabetes.
	Al-Slail is the director of the Diabetes Prevention and Control Program and the director of Cardiovascular Prevention and Control Program in the Saudi Ministry of Health, a position she has held since December 2013.
	Her role is to manage the overall contribution of the diabetes program in the Kingdom, working closely with MOH leaders and NGOs, review from a technical, statistical and ethical point of view research proposals to be presented to the research committee and support the publication of papers to maintain annual targets of the department.
	Her current research is entitled “KAP of Primary Health Care Physicians and Diabetic (T2) Patients visiting PHC Centers of Saudi Arabia,” which reviews patient flow plans to facilitate coordination between various departments, enhance the research activities in the department and provide support and guidance of analytical methodologies and statistical procedures.
	She is the in-country director of Emory University’s King Abdullah Fellowship Program for Public Health.
	Al-Slail received her master’s in public health from Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University, Atlanta, USA, in 2013. She received her M.D. from 6th of October University in Cairo in 2009. She is also certified as a project management professional.
	Her major research interests are: Diabetes, cardiovascular disease, preventive medicine, health literacy, noncommunicable disease prevention, communicable diseases and influenza vaccine. She is a member of the Saudi National Diabetes Control Committee and the Scientific Committee in the Directory of the Noncommunicable Disease, Ministry of Health, Saudi Arabia, as well as a member of The American Diabetes Association and the American Public Health Association.
	She is also a board member of MENA Influenza Stakeholders Network.