DUBAI: After being crowned the leading man, woman, and junior at the Luckiest Ball on Earth Grand Final, UAE golfers, Emanuele Galeppini, Teffy Bercero and Rory McGettigan will rub shoulders with the top-50 players on the European Tour’s Race to Dubai at this year’s DP World Tour Championship. Having secured a spot in the grand final through their local qualifying events at 20 clubs across the country, the region's best amateur golfers competed on the Fire Course at Jumeirah Golf Estates to book their spot in the DP World Tour Championship Rolex Pro-Am, taking place two days before the season-ending Rolex Series event kicks off. Emanuele Galeppini, who was five points clear of second place, secured the victory in the junior division with an impressive 43 points around the championship course. Following the round, Galeppini commented: “It’s amazing. It’s such an honour to have the opportunity to compete in the DP World Tour Championship Rolex Pro-Am, thank you so much to DP World and the tournament organisers.” Galeppini will tee up as a team alongside male winner, Rory McGettigan, and the female winner Teffy Bercero, who won with 44 and 35 points respectively. The Luckiest Ball on Earth Pro-Am team will be completed by one of the top 50 players on the Race to Dubai. Looking ahead to the opportunity, McGettigan said: “A huge thank you to the organisers for the opportunity, it’s a massive honour. It’s an amazing course and I am really looking forward to seeing who we get paired with, it will be a great day out.” Bercero added: “I can’t put it into words, I really didn’t expect to win and it’s a truly wonderful opportunity to play with one of the best players in the world.” The DP World Tour Championship Rolex Pro-Am will take place on Tuesday 16th November ahead of the season ending DP World Tour Championship which takes place on the Earth Course at Jumeirah Golf Estates on the 18th-21st November. Free tickets along with other hospitality options are available to watch the top-50 golfers on the Race to Dubai compete to be named European Number One.