RIYADH: With futuristic games for all ages and a restaurant, cafe and shisha lounge, Takenda is the newest one-stop shop for fun. “We decided to create a family-friendly entertainment center but with a more futuristic, digital slant, and from that point, we came up with Takenda,” Turki Al-Ahmadi, CEO of Takenda, shared with Arab News. Located at the Boulevard Riyadh, Takenda is paving the way for the future of entertainment in the region, bringing together diverse games and attractions for all generations to enjoy. Unlike any other entertainment center, Takenda combines activities for all ages under one hub, so adults, teenagers, and young children will never run out of activities to choose from. “We can host kids from as young as 2 years old to 17-year-olds. We have activities for all families,” the CEO shared. “The idea behind Takenda emerged from an initial meeting on Riyadh Season with the General Entertainment Authority. They told us that they needed something outstanding and unique,” Al-Ahmadi said. Gesturing to the brightly lit Takenda building, Al-Ahmadi said: “Just three months ago, there was nothing here. We built it from the ground up.” Guests at Takenda will be able to play a variety of games and collect points to claim a prize at the end of their visit. The CEO told Arab News that the prizes stocked in the prize center are shipped from London and include an assortment of Disney items. When Arab News visited Takenda, we witnessed a line of eager visitors ready to check out the shisha cafe on the second floor, overlooking the boulevard. Takenda is also set to open a karaoke restaurant connected to a gaming center that will give guests the perfect view of the boulevard. “At the karaoke restaurant, you can come in and dine. When the music starts, you’re given a mic and if you’re bold enough, you can come onto the stage. If you’re shy, you can stay in your seat and sing,” Al-Ahmadi explained. Takenda has taken a futuristic approach to gaming and entertainment with a concept new to the region called the immersive room, a virtual reality space that gives visitors the impression of going on a journey. The new entertainment hub not only aims to create memorable experiences for its visitors but to empower Saudis, with 15 out of the 16 companies working in the building being Saudi and only one being an international company. “The project manager is Saudi, the site manager is Saudi, the people that work here are Saudi,” Al-Ahmadi said. “We want to show the world that Saudis can do anything,” the CEO said.