DUBAI: “Real Housewives” executive producer Andy Cohen on Monday announced on NBC’s “Today” show that the UAE will get its own edition of the reality TV franchise. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Although the production for “The Real Housewives of Dubai” has not yet started, the show, created by US cable network Bravo, will premier in 2022. According to a released statement from Bravo, the UAE show will put the spotlight on “a group of women navigating their relationships, careers and supremely lavish and ultra-wealthy lifestyles in the United Arab Emirates. With the desert paradise of Dubai as the backdrop, this billionaire’s playground is known for its over-the-top opulence, jaw-dropping modern architecture and wild nightlife scene.” Pack your bags for Bravo's first original international Housewives franchise, The Real Housewives of Dubai! Bravoholics, we're leaving the hashtag up to YOU! Tweet using #RHODubai or #RHODXB to cast your vote, we'll be announcing the winner on Friday! pic.twitter.com/BlHIJAyVZV — Bravo (@BravoTV) November 1, 2021 Meanwhile, Cohen said: “Everything’s bigger in Dubai, and I couldn’t be more excited to launch Bravo’s first international ‘Housewives’ series in a city I’ve been fascinated by for years, with an outstanding group of friends as our guides.” Bravo tweeted a teaser for the show with the caption: “Pack your bags for Bravo’s first original international Housewives franchise, The Real Housewives of Dubai!” Shortly after, fans took to Twitter to show their excitement. The Real Housewives of Dubai better not be a bunch of white women and one middle eastern lady — Unapologetically Tiombe (@teeombay1920) November 1, 2021 “I can’t wait to watch ‘The Real Housewives of Dubai.’ They are going to show us what real money looks like,” tweeted one fan, while another said: “‘The Real Housewives of Dubai’ better not be a bunch of white women and one Middle Eastern lady.” Ok, but is Lindsay Lohan going to be on the real housewives of Dubai? — Jordan. (@jordycrayy) November 1, 2021 The network has not yet revealed the cast for its Dubai show, but another fan on Twitter questioned: “Ok, but is Lindsay Lohan going to be on ‘The Real Housewives of Dubai?” based on the US actress’s residence in the city.