He’s no stranger to big-race success in England, Ireland and France but this weekend will see British-based trainer Richard Fahey enter unchartered territory when he saddles Fev Rover in the G3 Bahrain International Trophy. It’s also breaking new ground for his charge, as the $650,000 contest will be the first time that the three-year-old, owned by Nick Bradley Racing, has ever run beyond a mile. “I’ve been mad keen to run her over 10 furlongs (2,000 meters) all season,” Fahey said. “But every time I found a race for her (it would rain) and I didn’t want to run on heavy ground. I spotted this race two or three months ago and it will be the first time we’ve had the opportunity to try her over this (length) on fast ground. I just wish it was an easier race.” With Group 1 winners Barney Roy and Lord Glitters in the field, plus the exciting Zakouski and a strong home team, including three for last year’s winning trainer Fawzi Nass, Bahrain’s riches won’t be easily won on Friday. However, in Fev Rover — the daughter of Guitafan, Fahey is bringing a horse with some of the best form in the race, having finished third in the Group 1 1000 Guineas at Newmarket in May.  The #TeamBritishRacing contingent take in the sights at Sakhir Racecourse and put the final touches to their prep ahead of raceday tomorrow. LORD GLITTERS - @omeararacing
				FEV ROVER - @RichardFahey
				POGO - @cbhills @rehc_bahrain @JSCComms @bahrain_h_w pic.twitter.com/SRDkVGWguI — GBRI (@GBRI_UK) November 18, 2021 Furthermore, she’s thriving under the Middle Eastern sun. “She’s doing brilliantly, loving it here,” the trainer said. “We didn’t have too many problems adjusting to the climate as it isn’t that cold at home yet — I don’t think we’ve even had a frost.” Fev Rover will be partnered by Paddy Mathers, who rides for Fahey in the UK and is also a regular at the Sakhir track. “I didn’t see any reason not to put Paddy on,” Fahey said. “He has plenty of course experience.” This year has already been a landmark year for Fahey, with a 3,000th career win in May putting the North Yorkshire trainer up there with the most successful British trainers in history, alongside the likes of five-time champion trainer John Gosden and fellow North Yorkshire-based Mark Johnston. As for his tactics in Bahrain, Fahey is hoping that the 14-strong field go along at a good pace. “I’d love for them to go very quick. She can miss the break, but I’d love to sit in fourth or fifth, somewhere like that,” he said. Fahey and his team could be forgiven for being a bit emotional should Fev Rover come home in front on Friday, as this might be her last start for the stable. “She’s actually in the mares’ sale in a couple of weeks, so we’ll have to see what happens,” he said. “But she’s good for racing on and I think she’s still improving.” Fahey also had an update on top-class two-year-old Perfect Power, who gave owner Sheikh Rashid Dalmouk Al-Maktoum a summer to remember by winning the G1 Darley Prix Morny and the G1 Juddmonte Middle Park. “He’s wintering extremely well; he’s just in light exercise at the moment,” Fahey said. “He’s a good fellow to deal with, as long as we feed him three times a day, he’s very happy.” The winner of three of his five starts so far, Perfect Power rates as one of the best his trainer has handled. “He’s the only dual Group 1-winning two-year-old I’ve had,” said Fahey. “He probably should have won on debut and he definitely should have won at Goodwood, so he should be five from five unbeaten.” The Ardad colt is likely to take in a trial before taking the Classic test in the G1 2000 Guineas at Newmarket. “With a horse like him, I think we’ll have to go to a Guineas trial,” Fahey said. “Christophe (Soumillon, the Belgian jockey) is adamant that he would have stayed seven furlongs last season, but I just need to find out before the Guineas if there’s any reason why he won’t.” With Fev Rover in Bahrain and Perfect Power to keep them excited during the winter back at home, team Fahey have a lot to be enthusiastic about right now.