DUBAI: With the last two years plagued by COVID-19, traveling has been an unfulfilled wish for many. But now that borders have re-opened and countries are welcoming visitors back, people are more inclined to book a flight and hop on a plane. Egyptian-Italian-French model and humanitarian Elisa Sednaoui landed in Cairo on Wednesday, her first time in the Egyptian capital in two-years. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle “Made it to Cairo,” she captioned a video of the city’s skyline, which she posted on her Instagram Stories. “For the first time in two years,” she added, alongside a heart-eye emoji.   The Italy-born model and philanthropist spent the first six years of her childhood in Zamalek, Cairo, and would visit at least three-times year, she says. Though she is based in Los Angeles, the 33-year-old is very much connected to her Egyptian roots. Last year, Sednaoui unveiled her debut collection of leather carryalls, pouches and backpacks and decided to pay sartorial homage to her roots by decorating each bag with crocodiles and an interpretation of the Abyssinian cat — a representation of the Ancient Egyptian sun deity, Ra. She also founded Funtasia, a non-profit social enterprise based in Luxor, in 2014. Funtasia creates grassroots programs for children and youth empowerment to help foster compassionate innovators. Today, it operates in more than 15 different locations in public schools in Italy and Egypt. Funtasia has supported more than 5,900 children and trained more than 700 adults in both countries, according to the organization’s website. A post shared by Elisa Sednaoui Dellal (@elisasednaoui) This week, the model released a children’s book in Italian, “Le Mie 9 Intelligenze.” Sednaoui describes the book as “playful activities for children and parents that offer opportunities to strengthen emotional intelligence, self and other awareness and behavior.” Author is just the latest title to add to her expanding CV. In addition to being a model, philanthropist, designer and actress, Sednaoui is also a film director. She co-directed with Martina Gill the documentary “Kullu Tamam” (Everything is Good), a 2012 film that tells the story of how Egyptians from rural areas responded to the uprisings in the Middle East.