DUBAI: US actress Lana Condor showed off a playful creation by Lebanese designer Georges Chakra at the 2021 InStyle Awards in Los Angeles. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Monday night’s event took place at the Getty Center and featured an intimate cocktail reception, dinner party and awards presentation. This year, US Congresswoman Katie Porter and gymnast Simone Biles were among those honored with awards at the event, which was attended by the likes of actress Lucy Hale, model Miranda Kerr, actress Nicole Kidman and “Bridgerton” star Phoebe Dynevor. A post shared by instylemagazine (@instylemagazine) For her part, Condor, who shot to fame for her role in smash hit Netflix rom-com film franchise “To All the Boys,” showed off a look by one of Lebanon’s leading designers. Hailing from his Spring 2020 Couture line, Chakra’s creation featured ribbed shorts with an attached silky blouse that cascaded into a floor-grazing train. Polka dots imbued the look with a sense of frivolity and fun, while a giant ruffle on one shoulder added to the ensemble’s dynamism. Chakra’s 47-piece Spring 2020 Couture collection was an ode to all that is playful in fashion. Unveiled at the Petit Palais in Paris in January 2020, the line was an extravagant tribute to the Beirut-born designer’s home country and featured lashings of silk, tulle and taffeta in varying saturated shades. Standout looks included a pink, strapless satin duchesse dress that was short at the front and long at the back and boasted a violet floral print, an asymmetrical gown that featured dashes of sequins in varying hues of green, an icy blue sheath dress with an organza train and a hand-painted blue-grey gazar dress with a fan shaped neckline. Condor’s choice walked the line between casual and decadent — and she certainly stood out among the sea of cocktail dresses at the awards ceremony. “Pretty Little Things” actress and singer Hale looked chic in a chartreuse mini dress by Dolce & Gabbana, while Australian model Kerr jazzed up her Dolce & Gabbana look with jewels by Rahaminov Diamonds. Meanwhile, Kidman turned heads in a shimmering purple number pulled from Armani Privé’s Spring/Summer 2009 Couture collection, proving sometimes old really is gold.   And speaking of gold, actress Kate Hudson was a vision in an all-gold, sequined sheath dress by Michael Kors, while Reese Witherspoon also stepped out in a sequined look by the American designer. A post shared by instylemagazine (@instylemagazine)