LONDON: Another former player has come forward to allege that he faced racism as a teenager while playing for Yorkshire County Cricket Club’s academy. Irfan Amjad, who was later released from the team, says a member of staff referred to his Pakistani heritage to criticize an attacking shot that backfired and caused him to be out while playing. He told the BBC: “The individual came marching through the door and he looked me dead in the eyes.” Amjad said the person then told him it was a “typical shot” for someone of Pakistani heritage. “I was stunned, didn’t know what to do,” Amjad said. “I had never been directly racially insulted like that to my face … Even before the incident I felt distant, and then I felt isolated after that.” He added: “Going forwards, I didn’t feel I could speak up or give my views on the game in team meetings. It crosses your mind (reporting it) but I was a 16-year-old boy and I didn’t know what to do. I kept it to myself.” YCCC said in a statement: “It is essential that those who have experienced racism, discrimination and abuse are able to come forward to share their experiences. We were unaware of this allegation until now but will investigate appropriately.” YCCC has been in hot water recently over its handling of allegations of racism by former player Azeem Rafiq, who faced racial and religious abuse while playing for the club. Rafiq said he witnessed “institutional racism” while playing for YCCC. Despite knowing about the issues he faced, the club did nothing. Last week, its Chairman Roger Hutton resigned over the handling of the racism claims. He and Rafiq will appear in front of a parliamentary committee later in the month to give an account of their experiences. Hutton apologized “unreservedly” to Rafiq, saying: “There has been a constant unwillingness from the executive members of the board and senior management at the club to apologize, and to accept that there was racism, and to look forward.” Former government minister and social worker Lord Kamlesh Patel was appointed to replace Hutton as chair of the club.