ABU DHABI: Mizuki Hashimoto of Japan came from three shots back on a thrilling final day to claim a one-shot victory in the third edition of the Women’s Amateur Asia-Pacific Championship on Abu Dhabi Golf Club’s National course. Hashimoto carded a fourth consecutive four-under round of 68 to finish on a 16-under-par total of 272, one shot better than Natthakritta Vongtaveelap (72), who had led the tournament from round one, as the Thai slipped back to tied second along with compatriot Kan Bunnabodee (66), and Australia’s Kelsey Bennett (68). With the victory, 19-year-old Hashimoto also secured major championship places in next year’s AIG Women’s Open and the Amundi Evian Championship, as well as the Hana Financial Group Championship and an invitation to play in the Augusta National Women’s Amateur. “I have always seen these tournaments on television,” Hashimoto, who is 121 on the world amateur golf rankings, said. “To be able to play in them is like a dream come true. I am unable to say any words right now. I feel so happy to win this championship. I would like to say a big thank you to my teammates and everyone who supported me all week.” UAE-based Natalii Gupta, a nominated player of the Emirates Golf Federation and the only local player to make the cut, rounded off an excellent week with a two-under 70 to finish on six under and a tie for 13th. All in all, it was an excellent four days for the Indian 17-year-old who was born and raised in the UAE. “I had a blast this week. I’m thankful to be here, thankful to be given the opportunity to play this week,” she said. The Women’s Amateur Asia-Pacific Championship was developed by the R&A and APGC to unearth emerging talent and provide a pathway for Asia’s elite women amateurs to the international stage. The R&A launched the Women in Golf Charter in 2018 and is committed to increasing the participation of women in the sport. The WAAP is one of several key championships conducted by the governing body and a significant initiative along with the APGC to drive the popularity of women’s golf in the region.