DHAKA: Thousands of Bangladeshi students took to the streets of Dhaka on Sunday, blocking the capital city’s main intersections and paralyzing traffic to demand enforcement of road safety laws. Bangladesh has one of the highest numbers of road traffic deaths in the world, according to World Health Organization estimates. Data from the Accident Research Institute of Bangladesh University of Engineering and Technology shows that road accidents in the country claimed the lives of 3,558 people between January 2020 and June this year. In 2018, young Bangladeshis protested across the country for over a week after two students were killed by a speeding bus. The protest prompted the government to enact a new road transportation law that increased the punishment for death due to negligent driving to five years. But demonstrators said the 2018 law had not been implemented as the current road safety protests gained momentum last week, after a college student was killed by a garbage truck. “How many more lives will be required to restore discipline in streets? We have given time to the authorities but nothing has been changed so we returned on streets again,” Jisan Ahmed, a college student, told Arab News while protesting in the Dhanmondi area of Dhaka. The protesting students are also demanding a discount on transit fares. “We want a 50 percent discount on fare in public transports and the authorities have to fulfil the demand by Tuesday. We will stage protest in front of Bangladesh Road Transport Authority building if our demands are not met within 48 hours,” another student protester, Antor Hasan, said. Nur Mohammad Mazumder, chairman of the authority, said more discussions were needed with transport operators to find a solution to student demands. “Already we had two meetings where a number of issues were discussed,” he said, adding it may take “some time” to resolve the issues. Bus owners said they feared facing losses if discounted fares were in place. “We have to incur losses if the students are transported at 50 percent discounted rate,” Dhaka Road Transport Owners Association Secretary-General Enayet Ullah Khan said. “We will sit again tomorrow among ourselves to find a solution.” According to the Passenger Welfare Association of Bangladesh, the fare issue was not a big problem. “Operators actually don’t require any subsidies from the government in this regard,” the association’s secretary-general, Mozammel Hoque, said. He expressed worry over the more significant issue that was deteriorating road safety. “Many of the city buses don’t comply with the fitness parameters set by the authorities,” Hoque said, adding that the number of accidents had increased since the 2018 protests. “In many cases we’re not witnessing the implementation of the law,” he told Arab News. “Things have taken a worse look as the number of road accidents have increased by around 10 percent.”