The Diriyah Gate Development Authority has partnered with PepsiCo to launch a new initiative to raise awareness and encourage recycling in the community.
The scheme has involved the installation of recycling bins throughout Diriyah, with most concentrated around Al-Othaim Mall, one of town’s busiest shopping centers.
The containers for plastic and metal waste have already been well-received by members of the local community.
Haifa Alrwishid, a DGDA community engagement officer, said: “I am thrilled that the people of Diriyah have taken to using the new recycling bins. It is a big step in the right direction for our community and moves us closer to our goal of living in a green, sustainable environment.
“A healthy recycling program is a staple of any modern community. Recycling is also key to achieving DGDA’s goal of delivering its world-class sustainability agenda.”
Most materials, including plastic, aluminum, and paper can be recycled for multiple uses with it being possible to repurpose an estimated 75 percent of waste.
For example, plastics can be made into storage containers, shopping bags, ropes, brooms, or even car batteries, while aluminum can be turned back into cans or be used for products such as cookware and making cars.
“With this initiative, the DGDA wants to highlight the importance of recycling. It prevents pollution, reduces the amount of waste that ends up in landfills, lowers greenhouse gas emissions, limits the need to harvest new raw materials, saves energy, saves money, and allows our products to be used to their fullest extent.
“We are excited to see how this initiative impacts on the levels of recycling in the community going forward,” Alrwishid added.
The authority is at the helm of the Diriyah Gate giga-project, which aims to transform the area into a hub for Saudi culture and heritage through world-class historical conservation work and extensive redevelopment and regeneration.
The DGDA recycling initiative, delivered with PepsiCo and with Naqaa Solutions providing the containers, will last until the end of December when the people of Diriyah will take over responsibility for continuing the campaign.