RIYADH: Saudi Arabia will be hosting in Feb. 2022 the largest technology event ever, LEAP. Taking place on Feb. 1-3 in Riyadh, it is set to become a global platform for the entire innovation ecosystem, connecting pioneers and disruptors with business and government leaders, entrepreneurs, investors and more to experience and learn about the technologies of the future, according to a statement. Abdullah Alswaha, Minister of Communications and Information Technology, said: “Technology and innovation have enormous potential to transform economies and societies. We live in a time where you either leap or be left behind. We are proud to host LEAP to help the region lead and leapfrog with technology and innovation.” The event will welcome speakers from all around the world including: Regional experts including: Over 700 emerging technology start-ups prepare to showcase their solutions to the world in LEAP, the statement said. Organised and produced by Informa Markets, LEAP is sponsored by leading local and international companies including, Microsoft, CISCO, KPMG, SoftwareAG, Nutanix, STC, Zain, Mobily and Ericsson, who will act together as strategic partners to bring this event to life. “Informa are delighted to have launched LEAP in Saudi Arabia. It is clear to us that with the enormous technology projects happening in the country, there is no hub in the world better placed to host such an amazing event,” said Mike Champion, Regional Executive Vice President of Informa Markets, the largest events company in the world. “In its first year, LEAP will be the largest debut technology event in history, and there can be no better evidence than that to prove Saudi Arabia is a future global technology hub.” Registration to attend LEAP is now open. Further keynote speaker announcements will be shared in the coming months, the statement said. To find out more about LEAP, visit www.OneGiantLeap.com. You can stay up to date with the latest announcements from LEAP via @leapandinnovate on Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, YouTube, LinkedIn and Snapchat. 