Citi has signed on as an official sponsor of the USA Pavilion at Expo 2020 Dubai, running from Oct. 1 until March 31, 2022. The Citi Rocket Stage at the pavilion will be a platform for American innovation, technology and progress.
	Citi launched the Rocket Garden Stage at the USA Pavilion, a showcase of its longstanding mission to enable growth and progress in the world. The stage will support American performers as they dazzle global audiences at the largest cultural gathering of the year.
	Located next to the iconic SpaceX Falcon 9 rocket replica, the third largest structure at Expo 2020, the Citi Rocket Garden Stage amplifies a common vision of progress, mobility and sustainability. “Enabling progress has been Citi’s mission for over two centuries. As a global bank, connecting millions of people across hundreds of countries and cities, we are thrilled to be part of Expo 2020 Dubai with the USA Pavilion and contribute to shaping the future and building a better world,” said Elissar Farah Antonios, CEO of Citi UAE and MENA cluster head. “Citi’s partnership with the USA Pavilion is an opportunity to highlight innovative and forward-thinking American companies that are driving the future at the world’s largest gathering in Dubai.”
	“The partnership between the USA Pavilion and its partners, including Citi, demonstrates the support of American businesses for the USA Pavilion at Expo 2020 Dubai,” said USA Pavilion Commissioner General Robert Clark. “The USA Pavilion provides an opportunity for businesses to showcase brands, products and services, while creating opportunities for expansion into new markets. We are grateful for Citi’s generous support in helping to make the USA Pavilion’s Citi Rocket Garden Stage possible. The USA Pavilion will host many American cultural acts on this stage.”
	Citi has had a unique presence in the UAE market since 1964 and continues to present significant opportunities for clients in corporate finance, trade finance, investment banking and wealth management across various client segments.
	At Expo 2020 Dubai, the US is celebrating “Life, Liberty and the Pursuit of the Future.” This powerful theme reflects America’s commitment to promoting prosperity, opportunity, and innovation globally and domestically.
	In 2021, Citi made a major announcement of $1 trillion to sustainable finance by 2030, extending its current environmental finance target from $250 billion by 2025 to $500 billion by 2030. Additionally, Citi laid out last March a bold commitment to accelerate its net zero emissions by 2050.