RIYADH: Boulevard Riyadh City (BLVD RUH City), one of the largest zones in Riyadh Season 2021, opens its doors for visitors today. It has tripled its size and will become a permanent entertainment hub in the capital. BLVD RUH City is the most prominent new Saudi landmark this year, an exceptional project built by national hands, making it the pride of Riyadh Season 2021. The zone covers about 900,000 square meters and contains nine areas, each with its own set of events. The areas include luxurious restaurants and cafes, gardens, international game centers, festivals and stores that cater to all age groups. Its special features include the largest cinema in the Kingdom, an electric car circuit, four theaters for concerts and shows and 8,000 square meters of electronic screens. The zone has a golf course, 12 paddle tennis courts, a global multi-use arena, a skating rink, a children’s area containing 500 electronic games and more than 20,000 parking spaces including places reserved for people with special needs. Seven paddle tennis coaches have come from Spain to work in the boulevard. “Paddle is a new sport here in Saudi. It’s a mix between squash and tennis, and is very addictive. Once you try it you will want to keep playing it,” Barbara Sala, a coach from Tenerife Spain, said. The boulevard has also welcomed many nearby visitors from the neighboring GCC countries. Two Emirati natives, banker Abdullah Aljssmi and senior logistics specialist Ali Alblooshi, talked to Arab News about their experience of the Riyadh Season. “Before we even visited Riyadh Season its reputation was very high and we had to see it for ourselves ,” Aljssmi said. “We recommend it for everyone, you have to come and visit it for yourself,” Alblooshi said. Turki Al-Sheikh, chairman of the Board of the General Entertainment Authority, promised visitors in his Twitter account that BLVD RUH City will offer non-stop events from day one. One of the interactive experiences included in the zone from Nov. 1 to March 30 is the Crystal Maze Live Experience, which is being held for the first time outside the UK. A giant ice-skating slide with multiple courses suitable for all age groups will be available from Nov. 1 to Jan. 11. The giant snow slide is part of a snow dome that offers winter activities, such as a climbing wall, a snow park and ice hockey. The Champions of Magic Show will present the world’s most famous tricks from Nov. 1 to 17. The zone will also offer music, with local, Arabic and international concerts throughout the season. This week the zone will host the Lebanese artists George Wassouf and Wael Jassar on Nov. 4. Al-Sheikh announced earlier that the season had exceeded one million visitors since its launch. He also said they had received 550 million riyals ($147 million) direct income for the season in less than 10 days. The zone is open daily from 5 p.m. until 4 a.m. and people can book their tickets from the Riyadh Seasons’ official website or application.