LOS ANGELES: As fashion lovers everywhere wait patiently for the release of the much-hyped film “House of Gucci,” we speak to Moroccan-British actor Youssef Kerkour who stars as Iraqi-Turkish billionaire Nemir Kirdar in the film. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The Ridley Scott-directed film follows Patrizia Reggiani, played by Lady Gaga, who marries into the renowned Gucci family. Her unbridled ambition begins to unravel the family legacy and triggers a reckless spiral of betrayal, decadence, revenge and ultimately murder in a role that is garnering the singer-turned-actress Oscar buzz. “Academy award nominee, Academy Award winner one after another — and me,” Kerkour joked with Arab News, referring to the stellar cast that includes Adam Driver, Jared Leto and Salma Hayek.   Kerkour plays the magnate who at one point owned the Gucci brand, and said he relied on the billionaire’s own writing to inform his portrayal of Kirdar. “Mr. Kirdar wrote a number of books… (he) has a way of really explaining to you what his fundamental thought process is. He does a lot of work for you while you’re reading,” the actor said. The film marks Scott’s 27th feature, as well as the fulfilment of a dream for Kerkour, who had announced his desire to work with the director after winning a BAFTA Breakthrough award in 2020. “They asked me ‘who do you want to meet, to be your mentor and everything. You can say any name,’” he shared. “I said ‘I know I’m an actor but I would like Ridley Scott. He’s the one I want to talk to.’ And little did I know that my agent, at the same exact time, was negotiating this audition.” With Oscar buzz already in the air, particularly for lead actress Lady Gaga, “House of Gucci” is expected to dazzle audiences with its tale of wealth, luxury, scandal and betrayal. “This movie seems to me to be the culmination of a man’s entire career, all his powers, and everything he’s learned,” Kerkour said. “Ridley Scott is a master in the writers’ department, in the acting department, in the directing department, cinematography, in the art department, costume department. He's a master at all of it and this movie kind of brings all of that together. I think people are going to be very excited.” The film is slated to be released in cinemas on Dec. 2.