DUBAI: British rapper Stormzy has been announced as one of the acts at the Yasalam After-Race concert series at this year’s Formula 1 Etihad Airways Abu Dhabi Grand Prix 2021. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The star’s Dec. 10 performance at the Etihad Park stage in Yas Island will be his first show in the UAE capital, organizers revealed on Monday. In September, it was announced that five-time Grammy-nominated artist Khalid and BRIT Award-winning singer Lewis Capaldi will be the first performers who will headline Thursday and Saturday night.  A post shared by Yasalam (@yasalamae) Khalid will take to the stage at Etihad Park, for his first concert in the UAE on Dec. 9, while the Dec. 11 show will see a performance from Scottish sensation Capaldi. CEO of Abu Dhabi Motorsports Management Al-Tareq Al-Ameri said in a statement: “We’re thrilled to announce that one of the world’s biggest stars, Stormzy, will be coming to Abu Dhabi for this year’s Yasalam After-Race Concerts as we welcome a phenomenal line-up of musical talents in Stormzy, Khalid and Lewis Capaldi.” Meanwhile, CEO of Flash Entertainment John Lickrish said: “Yasalam has a legacy of bringing ground-breaking artists to Abu Dhabi, and this year is no different. Stormzy transitioned from the underground to the mainstream, and he is now considered one of the biggest acts on the global rap and music scene.”  A post shared by Yasalam (@yasalamae) “We were eager to come back really strong following last year’s break in Yasalam After-Race Concerts, and with Stormzy now confirmed alongside Khalid on Thursday and Lewis Capaldi on Saturday, we are once again guaranteeing our fans unmissable experiences,” Lickrish said. The critically acclaimed and platinum-certified rapper has achieved international stardom since his emergence in 2013. His breakthrough album, “Gang Signs & Prayer,” topped the UK charts in 2017, winning British album of the year at the 2018 Brit Awards.  A post shared by Yasalam (@yasalamae) Building momentum with support from his devoted fan base, Stormzy is now the owner of more than 45 awards. Khalid has collaborated with some of music’s biggest stars, including his No. 1 singles “Love Lies” (with Normani), “Eastside” (with Halsey and Benny Blanco) as well as hits with artists including Billie Eilish, Shawn Mendes and Marshmello. Capaldi’s debut album, “Devinely Uninspired to a Hellish Extent,” spent ten weeks at No. 1 and was certified platinum in only 10 weeks with 20 billion streams. The album included smash hit of the year, “Someone You Loved.”