NEW YORK: A UN human rights expert on Wednesday sounded the alarm bells at “excessive use of force” by the Sudanese military against peaceful demonstrators protesting the October coup, and urged the military to honor the people’s demand to reinstate the civilian government. The UN special rapporteur on the right to peaceful assembly and association, Clément Voule, spoke of “disturbing reports of unlawful killings and injuries,” as a result of the military and security personnel beating protesters and their use of live ammunition to disperse the peaceful crowds. Voule called for the immediate and unconditional release of those who have been detained and demanded an investigation by the de facto authorities of such violent incidents. He also underscored the military’s need to “immediately refrain from the use of unnecessary and disproportionate force, withdraw the military from the streets and respect and protect the right to life and physical integrity of protesters. All those who are arrested for taking part in peaceful protests must be immediately and unconditionally released.” At least 12 protesters were killed and more than 300 injured — some sustaining gunshots  — since the coup was launched on Oct. 25. Voule singled out the “March of Millions” mass protests that took place on Oct. 30 when peaceful protesters were met with bullets that led to three deaths and more than 100 injuries. Some had breathing difficulties as a result of the use of tear gas, while others, including women, were beaten. The UN expert also expressed deep concern over raids by security forces on civil society organizations and media outlets. The safety of those arrested was called into question as some have been held incommunicado and could be subjected to torture. Reports indicated it was an “organized campaign of arrests of activists, journalists, students, human rights defenders, and lawyers.” “The whereabouts of many of those who have been detained are not yet known and they have not been able to contact their families or lawyers, which is considered as enforced disappearance,” Voule said. “The use of militarized forces for crowd control poses a serious threat to the right to life of civilians and protesters. Concerns at the deployment of militarized forces to manage peaceful protests are heightened as the military and security forces have not been effectively reformed or held accountable for the serious human rights violations committed against protesters in 2019.” Voule also expressed concerns about the shutdown of the internet and disruptions to telecommunications services, which prevents people from accessing vital information, and obstructs monitoring and reporting on human rights violations. He called for the services to be restored immediately.