DUBAI: Dubai is set to host a boxing world championship double-header when Sunny Edwards defends his IBF flyweight title against Jayson Mama and John Riel Casimero puts his WBO bantamweight title on the line against Britain’s Paul Butler at the Coca Cola Arena on Dec. 11. “Probellum: Revolution” will see the undefeated Edwards (16-0, four knockouts) make the first defense of his world title, taking on his mandatory challenger Mama (16-0, nine knockouts), after the two boxers were originally set to meet in September in Britain before an injury postponed the clash. Casimero (31-4, 21 knockouts) is back following his victory over Guillermo Rigondeaux in August, now squaring off with mandatory challenger Butler (33-2, 15 knockouts). Casimero is one of the most devastating punchers in the division and irl looking to keep his momentum going in his third world championship defense. Four-weight world champion Donnie Nietes (43-1-5, 23 knockouts) will also appear on the card, as he looks to move a step closer to another championship in a world title elimination bout. He will be joined by unbeaten super-featherweight Archie Sharp (21-0, nine knockouts), and former world title challenger Jono Carroll (20-2-1, five knockouts), who is coming off an important win against Andy Vences in September. “We are delighted to finally announce plans for this incredible event in Dubai next month,” said Richard Schaefer, president of Probellum. “We made it clear from the offset that we have massive plans in store for Probellum, and this world title double-header shows just that.” “The two world title fights see John Riel Casimero face Paul Butler, while Sunny Edwards takes on Jayson Mama, and both of those bouts are set to be guaranteed excitement,” he said, adding: “With the likes of Donnie Nietes, Archie Sharp and Jono Carroll all competing too, fans will be treated to a night of non-stop action. We cannot wait for fight night and are proud to bring this historic event to the Coca-Cola Arena in Dubai.”