DUBAI: OSN is rolling out a new campaign that is a first in the regional streaming industry, called “Always Fresh,” which guarantees to deliver new content every day in November and December. 62 percent of TV consumers struggle to find anything to watch, according to a 2017 PwC study. At the time, 55 percent of consumers said they are looking for a new TV series or movie to watch at least once per week. A more recent study by PwC showed that 83 percent were pleased with their options. But, with more options and an increase in time spent screening content, viewers are experiencing “platform burnout” and are unsure of what to watch next. For example, 29 percent said they were often “frustrated” or “overwhelmed” by the array of choices on offer, and 31 percent said easy, personalized content recommendations would be a reason for staying with a streaming service, according to the same study. “Viewers’ watching habits have changed in our new post-pandemic environment. Having spent months connected to streaming platforms, viewers’ appetites have reached a stage where they seek new, always-on fresh content,” said Nick Forward, Chief Digital & Content Officer at OSN. These consumer preferences drove OSN to launch the new campaign, which will bring fresh content, including movies, shows, and Arabic originals, to the streaming platform every day. The new line-up includes movies such as “Hitman’s Wife’s Bodyguard,” starring Ryan Reynolds and Samuel L. Jackson, “The Croods: A New Age,” starring Ryan Reynolds, Emma Stone, and Nicolas Cage; American shows such as “Yellowstone,” season 2 of “The Great,” season 11 of “Curb Your Enthusiasm,” and “Hacks”; and Arabic and Turkish series such as “Thalath Qurush,” with 3 new episodes dropping every Wednesday, and the fourth season of “Al-Tufah-Al Haram.” “We’ve curated a special selection of entertainment for our ‘Always Fresh’ campaign that will refresh viewers’ palates and excite them with our latest range of premium entertainment,” Forward said.