ABU DHABI: Dominic Thiem, the World No. 12, is to make his return to competitive tennis at the 13th Mubadala World Tennis Championship in Abu Dhabi in December. Flash Entertainment, owners of the Mubadala World Tennis Championship, have pulled off another masterstroke by confirming Thiem for the 13th edition of the Arabian Gulf’s leading professional tennis experience as it makes a welcome return, with full stadium capacity, at the International Tennis Centre, Zayed Sports City, in Abu Dhabi, from 16 -18 December. Thiem, the 2020 US Open champion, joins a star-studded player line-up, which features World No. 8 Casper Ruud, and World No. 19 Denis Shapovalov, alongside current women’s US Open champion Emma Raducanu and Tokyo Olympics singles champion Belinda Bencic, with three more male star names to follow. The four-time Grand Slam finalist has a strong following in the region having featured in the 2017 and 2018 editions of the Championship and organisers are delighted to secure his signature for the three-day festival this December. John Lickrish, CEO, Flash Entertainment, said: “Everyone knows how good a player Dominic Thiem is, especially our loyal, knowledgeable Championship fans. We are thrilled that he has decided to choose our Championship to make his return to tennis. Once again it demonstrates the appeal of playing in Abu Dhabi at the Mubadala World Tennis Championship as a great opportunity for the world’s best to benefit from top-class competitive action ahead of the new season.” “With the return of full capacity, more people will have the chance to see the world’s best players up close and soak up the festival atmosphere in the stadium and Tennis Village. With a stellar line-up that is going to be amplified by three more world-class names, I urge fans to secure their tickets now.” Thiem is looking to begin 2022 with a strong showing in Abu Dhabi. “I was keen to find the right opportunity to make my return to the court and the Mubadala World Tennis Championship comes at a great time. The Championship offers the perfect environment to continue my comeback and play against the top guys on tour,” said Thiem, who is back in full training after picking up a wrist injury in June. With his rise to World No. 3, Thiem became the second highest ranked Austrian tennis player of all-time. His victory at the 2020 US Open also saw him become the first player born in the 1990s to win a men’s Grand Slam. Tickets for the Mubadala World Tennis Championship, starting from AED 100 for adults and AED 50 for children, are available from ticketmaster.ae and Virgin Megastores across the UAE. In line with current protocols, measures will be in place within the stadium and throughout the Tennis Village to ensure the health and safety of fans, players and officials. Additionally, in line with the latest government guidelines the Championship will welcome fans and spectators with green status on the Al Hosn app and a negative PCR test result with 96-hour validity across three days of exciting tennis action, in a safe and secure environment. Premier Hospitality tickets are available, offering fans a premium F&B menu and courtside seating providing prime viewing and an unparalleled experience. More details are available on www.mubadalawtc.com