DUBAI: Bella Hadid took to Instagram this week to detail her struggles with anxiety. The part-Palestinian model shared footage of singer Willow Smith talking about how she does not feel “good enough” sometimes, alongside a series of teary-eyed selfies. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle “I love you and your words,” she wrote, tagging Smith. “It made me feel a little less alone and that’s why I’d like to post this,” she began in her lengthy, emotional note. “This is pretty much my every day, every night for a few years now,” Hadid wrote, adding “social media is not real. For anyone struggling, please remember that. A post shared by Bella (@bellahadid) “Sometimes all you’ve got to hear is that you’re not alone. So, from me to you, you’re not alone. I love you, I see you, and I hear you. Self-help and mental illness/chemical imbalance is not linear and it is almost like a flowing rollercoaster of obstacles… it has its ups and downs, and side to sides,” the 25-year-old wrote to her 47 million Instagram followers. “But I want you to know, there is always light at the end of the tunnel and the rollercoaster always comes to a complete stop at some point,” she continued. It is not the first time that Hadid has discussed her mental health with fans. The US-Palestinian-Dutch model has been transparent about her battles with severe anxiety and depression since she was a teenager. At the Vogue Fashion Festival in 2019, the catwalk star revealed that there were days she would “cry every single morning” when her career first kicked off at the age of 17. “I would cry during my lunch breaks, I would cry before I slept. I was very emotionally unstable for a while when I was working 14-hour days for four months straight as an 18-year-old. I think I just wanted to breathe a little bit. And so it kind of put me in a spiral,” she shared. A number of celebrities, including sister Gigi Hadid, applauded Bella for opening up about her struggles with mental health. “I love you,” wrote Gigi Hadid in the comments section this week. “I haven’t seen anything I related to more on the internet all year,” said US celebrity chef Sophia Roe.