CAIRO: The US reaffirmed its support for Egypt’s water security, in the final statement of the strategic dialogue between the two countries. Washington and Cairo called for the resumption of negotiations on an agreement on the filling and operation of Ethiopia’s Renaissance Dam under the auspices of the African Union president, in line with the presidential statement of the UN Security Council on Sept. 15. The US stressed the importance of its strategic partnership with Egypt, and of holding periodic dialogue. The statement said Washington and Cairo stress the importance of holding Libyan elections on schedule, and the need to remove foreign forces and mercenaries from the country. The US expressed its appreciation for Egypt’s leadership in mediating solutions to regional conflicts, particularly with regard to the Gaza Strip. According to the statement, the two sides discussed the situation in Sudan, the settlement of regional conflicts, and the humanitarian crises in Syria, Lebanon and Yemen. They also agreed to continue high-level consultations on Middle Eastern and African issues. The statement said the two sides had a constructive dialogue on human rights and fundamental freedoms. Egypt welcomed the election of the US to the UN Human Rights Council, while Washington welcomed Cairo’s plans to promote human rights in cooperation with civil society. They reaffirmed their commitment to expand and deepen economic, trade and climate cooperation. They also exchanged ideas on increasing investment in both countries, and the US welcomed the AU’s nomination of Egypt to host COP27 in Sharm El-Sheikh. The two sides announced the launch of a high-level joint economic commission, and the formation of an Egyptian-American working group on climate. They also expressed their intention to sign a memorandum of understanding between the American Export-Import Bank and the Egyptian Ministry of Finance. The US and Egypt reaffirmed their commitment to defense cooperation in order to address current and future challenges, including in the areas of counterterrorism, border control and maritime security. Washington noted the importance of the recent $1 billion funding contract to renew Egyptian Apache helicopters, which supports jobs in the US and enhances Egyptian military readiness.