DUBAI: Several Arab and international celebrities used their star-power on Thursday in Abu Dhabi to raise over $1 million for social welfare and health projects in the region and across the world, as part of the Global Gift Gala project. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The stars who attended included US-Iraqi entrepreneurs and beauty moguls Huda Kattan and Mona Kattan, who are ambassadors of the Global Gift Gala, US actress and philanthropist Eva Longoria, the honorary chair of the event, US-Somali model Halima Aden, and Australian-Lebanese model Jessica Kahawaty. The money will be used to aid the Lebanese Red Cross, the medical service of the Lebanese Army, and the Global Gift Foundation’s programs worldwide. The Global Gift Gala includes artists, singers and athletes who are not paid to raise funds for charity. Here are some of our favorite looks: Eva Longoria  A post shared by Eva Longoria Baston (@evalongoria)  The actress wore a one-shouldered sparkling gold gown from UK fashion house Vivienne Westwood. She accessorized with jewelry from Lebanese jeweler Fawaz Gruosi. Huda Kattan   The founder of Huda Beauty wore a form-fitting pink dress with a thigh-high slit. She posed on the red carpet with her husband Christopher Goncalo, her daughter Nour and her sister Mona. Mona Kattan   Mona opted for a tight beige dress with decorative silver sequins. This was Mona’s first public appearance with her new fiancé, Dubai-based businessman Hassan El-Amin, since their engagement earlier this month. Halima Aden   The hijab-wearing model wore a sequin suit in black. Halima recently appeared in an Instagram Story with Huda praising her: “You give so many girls hope.” Jessica Kahawaty  A post shared by Jessica Kahawaty جيسيكا قهواتي (@jessicakahawaty)  The model, entrepreneur and influencer wore a glitzy black dress by Italian fashion designer Alberta Ferretti. She opted for chunky green earrings, designed by Gruosi, to complete her look. She shared a picture of her appearance on social media with the caption: “Last night at the Global Gift Gala in Abu Dhabi we raised over $1m that will go towards supporting children around the world including my dearest Lebanon.” Anastacia   The US singer wowed the audience with a nostalgic rendition of her classic song “I’m Out of Love.”   Anastacia wore two outfits: The first was a floor-length off-the-shoulder dress in dark purple, while her second look — which she wore for her performance — featured sparkling straight-leg pants with a leather jacket and a black cowgirl-inspired belt.