JEDDAH: FAYVO, a new social media app, has partnered with MBC Group in an effort to enhance its engagement with media. The collaboration will help FAYVO drive business growth by enhancing its service offering and expanding its user base. The social media app aims to redefine how digital and social media connections are made, by allowing users to save and access their favorite items from books and music to restaurants and products in one place. Entrepreneur and investor Fahad bin Mansour came up with the idea for the app in 2015, hoping to provide a convenient way to share favorite moments and experiences, and exchange recommendations with family and friends around the world. Development work on the app was completed two years later. “We are pleased to partner with MBC Group in line with FAYVO’s strategy to build and enhance strategic relationships with our stakeholders,” said bin Mansour, founder and CEO of FAYVO. “This collaboration comes as a significant addition to our wide-ranging efforts to further increase the breadth and scope of our services, and grow and expand our user base in Saudi Arabia, as well as in the wider region and globally,” he added. Fadel Zahreddine, group director of emerging media at MBC Group, said that the agreement is in line with the group’s belief that “innovation and entrepreneurship are key to addressing new consumer needs, and therefore, we have an ongoing commitment to encouraging new ideas and digital platforms.” The partnership also “furthers our contribution to driving the development of a thriving entrepreneurship ecosystem in Saudi Arabia and the region” and is “part of MBC Group’s ongoing efforts to support local startups and emerging companies,” he added. FAYVO offers integration with platforms, such as IMDB, Anghami, Google Maps and Amazon. “Integration with other service providers to make it easy for users to discover and share their favorites across a wide range of media and experiences is a key part of our strategy, and we are looking forward to announcing new partnerships in this segment,” said bin Mansour. FAYVO is available for download on the App Store and Google Play.