DUBAI: Cult Netflix series “Emily in Paris” is back for season two, and as expected viewers were treated to head-turning fashion from the show’s protagonist Emily Cooper (Lily Collins) and her best friend Mindy Chen (Ashley Park). For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The love-it-or-hate-it show, which has detractors and fans battling it out online, is as famous for its fashion as its saccharine storyline.   From runway ready-pieces from the likes of Valentino to next-level looks from Balmain, the fashionable lead stars do not disappoint on the sartorial front, offering plenty of inspiration for our 2022 wardrobes — with help from last season’s co-costume designer Marylin Fitoussi and Patricia Field, who is known for her wardrobe work on “Sex and the City,” on-board as costume consultants. Indeed, Emily’s sartorial style has evolved this season, as the Chicago native’s wardrobe takes a colorful turn that has fashion insiders either in love or up in arms online. Among the inimitable lineup of looks displayed by Emily throughout the 10 episodes was a particular eye-catching number.  In season two’s opener — titled “Voulez-Vous Coucher Avec Moi?” — Emily strides into her marketing firm’s office wearing  a boxy green jacket with short sleeves by Lebanese designer Elie Saab.   The mini coat was plucked from the Beirut-born couturier’s Spring 2021 ready-to-wear collection and was paired with a striped and ribbed-knit Versace polo and vintage Thierry Mugler checked skirt. Throughout the series, Emily, Mindy and monochrome queen Camille — another character from season one — continue to be decked out in exuberant outfits. Looks from well-known designer labels share screen time with under-the-radar designers. Oscar de la Renta, Roger Vivier, Mary Katrantzou, La Perla, Vassilis Zoulias and Rianna + Nina are among the brands championed by the fashionable trio. The stylists behind the show also embraced sustainability this season, with all of the couture looks supplied by the Paris-based Renaissance Project, a non-profit that recycles cast-off clothes. The characters’ flashy style not only caught the attention of binge-watchers, but online retailers as well. In November, WWD magazine reported that a number of retail sites partnered with Netflix to feature a selection of looks from the show, curated from luxury brands. Among the shoppable styles is a silk, fuchsia printed pajama set from AZ Factory that Emily wore in episode 8.