LONDON: It’s hard to tell exactly who is the focus of Adam McKay’s righteous indignation in satirical sci-fi flick “Don’t Look Up,” which launched in select theaters before heading to Netflix. The movie (which McKay wrote, produced and directed) seems to have it in for everybody in equal measure, hammering home its swipes at the mainstream media, celebrity culture, tech billionaires, Trump-style politicizers, and science deniers with such unrelenting regularity that it’s hard to keep up. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle   Astronomers Randall Mindy and Kate Dibiasky (Leonardo DiCaprio and Jennifer Lawrence) discover a comet hurtling towards Earth, certain to wipe out all life unless it is diverted. They take the information to the White House, only to be told by the donor-reliant President Orlean (Meryl Streep) and her chief of staff son Jason (Jonah Hill) that they’ll take their findings under advisement. The two disillusioned scientists instead hit the daytime TV circuit with their message that everyone in the world is doomed. Labelled as doomsayers by the ‘Don’t Look Up’ crowd of the movie’s title, they are ridiculed by those unwilling or unable to accept the scientific truth.   Along the way, McKay throws his star-studded ensemble cast into a bewildering array of clichéd stereotypes. Some hit (Timothée Chalamet as a disaffected youth is about the only good thing to come out of the movie) but most miss (most notably Mark Rylance’s frankly weird take on a creepy tech CEO with a savior complex).   This is such a strange film to watch. There are flashes of very funny material, but so much of the film is simply McKay lambasting everyone, from everyday citizens whom he credits with very little intelligence to bimbo celebrities like Riley Bina (played in good spirit, at least, by Ariana Grande). “Don’t Look Up” was one of the most exciting things about Netflix’s 2021 film slate when it was teased at the start of the year. Like so many things over the last 12 months, it has been kind of a disaster.