ROME: The UAE will celebrate 50 years as a nation with the world-renowned 1000 Miglia classic car race from Feb. 18 to 22, running from the Dubai Expo to Abu Dhabi. The legendary event, known as the Red Arrow, will be staged for the first time outside its home route in Brescia, Italy, and will feature 100 cars owned by car enthusiasts from business, art and sport. They will put their treasured possessions to the ultimate test over 1,000 miles (1,600 km) in a trial of endurance, navigational ability and teamwork. The classic cars will be on display for one day at Dubai Expo, allowing enthusiasts to see some of the world’s rarest and most exceptional automobiles. “We think of the Emirates in the winter as the most beautiful country in the world, and what better way to celebrate that beauty and splendor than to host the most beautiful race in the world?” said Alia Al-Hammadi, vice chair of the UAE government’s media office, at a press conference in Dubai. “Together, we are celebrating the incredible beauty, diversity and history of the Emirates, and showing people the fantastic experiences and destinations that are all around us here.” Aldo Bonomi, president of the Automobile Club of Brescia, which owns the 1000 Miglia brand, said the race would “allow us to bring the emotions, passion, experiences and sporting” tradition to the UAE. The route from Dubai includes the garden oasis city of Al-Ain in the eastern region of Abu Dhabi, where the participants will experience the twists and turns of the winding roads of Jebel Hafeet. From Al-Ain, the race will switch to a fast-paced section through the eastern mountains, followed by a drive along the coast, ending in Fujairah. From there, the drivers will head through Jebel Jais. Following an overnight stopover in Ras Al-Khaimah, the race winds its way back through the northern emirates, taking in Umm Al-Quwain’s mangroves, Ajman’s seaside, and stopping for lunch in Sharjah. After a second stopover in Dubai, the race heads south to Abu Dhabi for the finish at Yas Marina Circuit. The race has been run every year in Italy since 1927, featuring a spectacular range of vintage cars. The 1000 Miglia takes place from Brescia to Rome and back. The first race was held on March 26, 1927.