LEICESTER: Eddie Howe has blasted referee Peter Bankes’ decision not to look again at the James Maddison penalty call that set his Newcastle United side on their way to a Leicester City hammering. Maddison appeared to dive before contact was made with United skipper Jamaal Lascelles, just five minutes before the break with the game finely poised at 0-0. Youri Tielemans dispatched the spot-kick with ease, before adding another along with goals from match-winner Maddison and Patson Daka, as the Foxes ran riot against the Magpies. But Howe believes Bankes’ hesitancy ultimately cost his side at the King Power Stadium. “I don’t believe the scoreline was reflective of the game,” said Howe, whose side sit 19th in the Premier League table with just one win in 16. “We were competitive and I think the penalty had a huge bearing on the game. I don’t think it was a penalty, in my opinion. Maddison is going over before the contact is made. “I am disappointed the referee didn’t go over and have a look at it himself. I think that would have been the best decision for him to make, because it was obviously a contentious moment in the match.” While Howe points to the ‘error’ by Banks and VAR officials, defensive errors set the tone for United on the day. It was hesitant playing out from the back that cost United field position in the run up to the penalty call, while individual errors from the likes of Lascelles, Javier Manquillo, Jacob Murphy and Joelinton alos led to the second, third and fourth. Howe, while acknowledging the errors, did prefer to pick out the positives on the day. He said: “You need results. We are well aware of the position we find ourselves in. Reflecting on it, I think there were some good things about today. There were obviously things that weren’t so good. “We had a lot of good ball around their box, we had a lot of opportunities to create, but our final ball and final decision wasn’t quite right to open them up. That was the difference. “Defensively, Leicester didn’t really have any concerted pressure in the game. They scored four goals due to some poor defensive moments. “I think at 0-0 the game was very much there for us to win, but I do think the penalty has a big bearing on the game.”