DUBAI: Lebanese designer Zuhair Murad has added another A-list customer to his growing list of clients. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle “West Side Story” actress Rachel Zegler is the latest Hollywood star to champion Murad’s sparkly ensembles. The 20-year-old singer and YouTuber attended the 15th annual CNN Heroes: All-Star Tribute event in New York wearing a gold trumpet sleeved mermaid gown with chain embellished detailing from the couturier’s ready-to-wear spring 2022 collection.   At the event, Zegler presented the 2021 CNN Hero award to Jenifer Colpas, founder of nonprofit organization Tierra Grata, which provides clean water, solar-powered lights and electricity, as well as eco-toilets and showers, to remote rural communities in Colombia. “Felt so golden at #CNNHeroes last night honoring Jenifer Colpas, who is doing incredible work in Cartagena, Colombia to provide folks with housing, electricity and sanitation,” Zegler shared on Instagram with her 331,000 followers. “Thank you for having me, @cnn! What a beautiful evening.” The US actress was cast as the lead in the 2021 film version of “West Side Story,” directed by Steven Spielberg and adapted by US author Tony Kushner.  A post shared by rachel zegler (@rachelzegler) Besides earning critical acclaim for her performance, Zegler garnered Golden Globe award and Critics Choice award nominations. The up-and-coming talent is set to star as Snow White in a live-action adaptation of Disney’s animated film alongside “Wonder Woman” actress Gal Gadot, who will play the evil queen. Zegler has joined the cast of the superhero film “Shazam! Fury of the Gods,” based on the DC Comics character Shazam and scheduled for release in 2023.  A post shared by rachel zegler (@rachelzegler) Murad recently dressed models at Saudi Arabia’s inaugural Red Sea International Film Festival. US-Brazilian model Alessandra Ambrosio’s all-white look featured a peek-a-boo cut-out at the waist and hip-high slit, along with gem-encrusted details on the torso and shoulder. Portuguese model Sara Sampaio opted for a dramatic black gown, with silver embellishments along the length of the garment.  A post shared by rachel zegler (@rachelzegler) The latest to champion Murad’s glamorous dresses is Academy Award-winning actress Marisa Tomei, who shone at the Los Angeles premiere of “Spider-Man: No Way Home” on Tuesday. Tomei wore a gold long-sleeved sequin gown with jeweled embellished detailing and thigh-high slit from his ready-to-wear resort 2022 collection.