JEDDAH: A Muslim human rights body has joined an international chorus of voices calling for the adoption of inclusive polices in efforts to help the world recover from the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic. The Independent Permanent Human Rights Commission of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation has highlighted the importance of upholding principles of participation, equality, and nondiscrimination to mitigate the effects of the global health crisis. Marking international Human Rights Day on Friday, the commission welcomed this year’s theme “Reducing inequalities, advancing human rights” which it said sent out a timely message to all governments to adopt inclusive and participatory policies in ongoing pandemic recovery initiatives. The commission pointed out that the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development must be pursued in a manner consistent with member states’ obligations under international human rights laws, including the need to respect, protect, and fulfil the economic, social, and cultural rights of all without any discrimination. It added that the cumulative political and socio-economic consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic represented an imminent threat to the promotion and protection of human rights with receding freedoms, widening disparities, and further marginalization of people in vulnerable situations, including women and young girls, the elderly and disabled, migrants and refugees, minority groups, and people living under occupation or in armed conflict situations. “The pandemic also proved that the world needs structural changes to efficiently eradicate inequalities beyond the ambitious political narratives that fail to inspire real action. “Hence, the post-COVID-19 phase should not be guided by the simple need to address the damages inflicted by the pandemic but to transform the structures that could not protect the vulnerable during the crisis. “Human rights must be the guiding norm in shaping the post-pandemic response, both for the public health emergency and the broader impact on people’s lives and livelihoods,” the commission said. Pursuing a human rights-based approach to the 2030 Agenda could help to address many of these challenges, it added, by tackling the structural causes of discrimination and inequality, empowering rights-holders, and holding duty-bearers accountable. In embarking on an inclusive and equitable recovery at a global level, the commission recommended the provision of debt-relief, giving low-income developing countries the fiscal space to mitigate the crises and realize the sustainable development goals to ensure the basic human rights of their peoples. It also highlighted the vital link between international cooperation and realization of SDGs by developing nations, which it said should be expanded to align global financial and economic architecture with development rights. The commission urged all countries to adopt, as a priority, a legally binding instrument on the right to development to meaningfully contribute to achieving SDGs without discrimination and in a timely manner.