LOS ANGELES: Amazon Prime’s sci-fi psychological thriller “Encounter” stars Oscar nominee Riz Ahmed, as a former decorated marine who reunites with his sons to escape both from a secret invasion of alien parasites and from the police who think that the estranged father has kidnapped the boys. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle   “I do a lot of research. I was speaking to a lot of people, a lot of soldiers, some special forces people, did military training, physical training,” said British-Pakistani Ahmed, who stars in the new Michael Pierce-directed psychological drama alongside child actors Aditya Geddada and Lucian-River Chauhan, who take on the role of his children. “I think one of the coolest things in this job is kind of talking to people and meeting them. So I love meeting people and recording interviews, and when they tell me their stories it helps me imagine myself into the role,” he adds. The chemistry between the family is the center point of the film, with Ahmed balancing a soldier’s mission-first focus, with a fatherly concern for the boys he’s all but forgotten how to parent. The boys in turn go through a coming of age story learning to speak up when they question his choices.   “I think the message of the film is to protect your family no matter what and I think that’s what happened in this film,” said Chauhan, 17. “I think I have one more,” quipped nine-year-old Geddada. “That family is the most important thing in the world,” he said. “Encounter” is the first feature film for young stars Chauhan and Geddada. Ahmed says that he was initially concerned about working with children, but after seeing their auditions, he was impressed and excited to act alongside them. “I learned really what acting is all about, which is about being open and present and honest. And so much of the time I think we forget that. These guys, I won’t call them kids, they are my colleagues, they are my friends. They taught me that. They reminded me that, and I’m grateful for that,” Ahmed shares. “Encounter” is playing in cinemas now and is available for streaming on Amazon Prime Video.