NEWCASTLE: Eddie Howe has hinted he could take key Newcastle United players out of the firing line at Liverpool on Thursday night. The Magpies continue their grueling run of festive fixtures with a trip to Anfield, following on from their Leicester City hammering at the weekend. On Sunday, Howe’s team host Manchester City, before December is rounded off with Manchester United on Tyneside and a visit to Rafa Benitez’s Everton. And while Howe is keen to play his strongest team across the run of tough encounters, he understands the need to rest some players, such as top scorer Callum Wilson, for battles down the line. “Sounds easy, doesn’t it? It is very much a balance,” said Howe. “When you are in my position, there has to be a managing act with all of the players in this period, particularly ones with different (injury) histories. “We have to make sure we get the majority of the squad through these games in a good way but you also have to bring your strongest team as well. I have to get that balance right.” While many in his position would hardly be relishing the prospect of facing arguably the two best sides in Europe on current form in less than four days, Howe is not of that mindset. He said: “I describe this as a great opportunity. We are facing the best teams in the land. “This is a chance to see where we are, a chance to impose ourselves on them. These are fantastic occasions. Anfield for a night game has a fantastic atmosphere. We know we will have to be at our best to get something.” This evening sees the best attack in the Premier League pitted against the worst defense — and Howe is under no illusions about the challenge ahead. “It is a big challenge for us but one we look forward to,” said Howe. “Liverpool are in outstanding form, with their attacking players linking really well at the moment, but I think we have to learn lessons from the Leicester game — a game in which we came under minimal pressure. “We still conceded at key moments in the game,” he said. “Having a solid backline, defensive shape is key in this game and we need to get organization to the highest level, because Liverpool will find a hole in that.” Howe added: “The other way, we have players who can hurt them — on transitions we are a real threat. It is important to bring a threat, a challenge to them. We go there ready to perform.” On the injury front, the Magpies have close to a clean bill of health ahead of facing Jurgen Klopp’s Reds, although two key players are set to be sidelined for much of the festive period. “Paul Dummett is still out long-term, although he is making good progress,” said the head coach. “We hope to get him back some time soon, although he hasn’t trained with the group yet. “We have lost Federico Fernandez due to an injury,” added Howe. “We are not sure to what extent, but we’ve certainly lost him for this game and the majority of the games over the festive period, I’d think.”