JEDDAH: The Saudi judicial system is seeing another immense development with the law of evidence officially approved. The new law, approved on Tuesday, aims to develop the country’s legislative system. The law, alongside three others, namely the personal status law, the civil transactions law, and the penal code for discretionary sanctions, are the four main legislative projects announced last year by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman. The law of evidence is expected to eliminate discrepancies in courts. Commenting on the new law, Saudi Attorney General Sheikh Saud bin Abdullah Al-Mujib was quoted by the Saudi Press Agency as saying that its issuance is “one of the fruits of the efforts of the wise leadership in developing the judicial system and procedural rules in preserving the rights, consolidating the principles of justice, and enhancing the confidence in the judicial system,” Al-Mujib, who is also a member of the Saudi Council of Senior Scholars, added that the law reflects the Kingdom’s eagerness to develop its judiciary in a way that complies with global methods and practices. This would effectively enhance justice, contribute to guaranteeing individuals’ rights, and reduce disputes. The president of the Saudi Court of Grievances and head of the Administrative Judiciary Council, Dr. Khalid bin Mohammed Al-Yousef, told SPA that the issuance of the law “will help in achieving a sustainable development, and the creation of an attractive legal environment that enables increased confidence in contracts and obligations, in general,” Dr. Abdulkarim Al-Thiabi, vice dean of the Faculty of Sharia and Laws at the University of Tabuk, told Arab News that the law of evidence was in line with Saudi Vision 2030, and aims at creating a stable and developed legislative environment that ensures and keeps pace with developing legal challenges. He added that the drafting of the comprehensive rules complies with globally recognized standards of law, and the project is considered the nucleus of a legislative environment that can attract investments and achieve the desired judicial purposes. He added that the more modern and developed the rules of evidence in a particular legal system, the more likely they are to enhance justice and protect the rights of all parties involved. “The rules of evidence are the cornerstone of stability in civil and commercial transactions, especially with the economic growth witnessed by Saudi Arabia and its quest towards achieving its 2030 Vision,” Al-Thiabi concluded.