RIYADH: Leading fashion brands from around the world are taking part in the Ana Arabia exhibition, which features the largest number of female designers showing their creations under one roof. The exhibition opened its doors to visitors on Dec. 10 in Riyadh Front, one of the Riyadh Season’s 14 zones. Under the “Imagine More,” slogan, more than 250 brands are featured in the exhibition, 128 of which are in Riyadh for the first time. Jewelry, fashion and perfumes will be showcased, with international brands including Bazaza, Temraza and L’atelier Nawbar on display. Rabia Khan, owner of Treasure of Kashmir, is showing Kashmir crafts, food, fashion and art from the valley. “I came from Kashmir to take part, and there has been a lot of demand for my embroidery pieces. Saudi Arabia is a strong market, and it can get cold here, so it is perfect for my business,” Khan told Arab News. “We are very lucky that the Riyadh Season came up with such a beautiful idea as Ana Arabia.” Sara Yamani, a designer selling abayas through a Design Society booth, said: “We are a concept store containing many Saudi designers, and we came to Ana Arabia because all the Arab world is coming here to showcase its products. We are very happy to be a part of Riyadh Season.” International Egyptian designer Fareeda Temraz, owner of Temraza, said that she received an official invitation from Turki Al-Sheikh, chairman of the General Entertainment Authority and chairman of Riyadh Season, to represent Egypt in the exhibition. “I’m very impressed with the organization of Ana Arabia. The place is amazing and it has a good vibe,” she said. Temraz presented a new fashion collection, Tempowerment, that expresses her pride in the strength and empowerment of Arab women in various fashion fields. Bashayer Al-Otaibi, sales executive of the Atyab Al-Nafea perfume brand, said that the exhibition has highlighted the growing demand for Arabian scents. “We came from the UAE, and this is our first time participating in Ana Arabia. It is an honor, and the exhibition is sophisticated,” Al-Otaibi said. The Ana Arabia exhibition will run until Dec. 15, and is considered one of the highlights of the Riyadh Season, combining elegance, art and fashion.