NEWCASTLE: Eddie Howe has described English Premier League foe Ralf Rangnick as a “pioneer of the game.” The Newcastle United head coach has been full of praise for the Manchester United interim boss before the two sides lock horns at St. James’ Park on Monday night. Rangnick was appointed in a temporary role with the Red Devils, following the sacking of Ole Gunnar Solskjaer in November. While his impact has so far been muted, Howe believes the signs are already there that the respected German coach is turning things around at Old Trafford. When quizzed on his opposite number, Howe said: “I know he has had a huge impact on some of the most influential coaches in the Premier League, a lot of the culture-change managers who have brought new ideas." Howe added: “He is a pioneer of the game. He is someone who I’ve had a couple of conversations with over the years — and someone I highly respect and admire. Someone who has a high reputation in the game with honors which prove his methodology works wherever he goes. “I have no doubt he will have made very instant changes to Manchester United — he will bring in his own way of playing, I have already seen that in the two games that he’s had.” While it is fair to say the turnaround with Manchester United has been steady, it is difficult to make a case for any managerial bounce — in terms of results — at Newcastle. Performances, organization and attacking intent have definitely improved, but defensive frailties and the ability to get beaten handsomely are old habits the Magpies seem incapable of shaking. When asked to assess his first month or so in charge at United, Howe said: “I’d want more points for sure." He added: “We came into a very difficult situation and we were under no illusions at the size of the task we had. I think you can’t question the players in terms of what they’ve given me.They have given me everything.” Howe said that he has been pleased "with a lot of what we’ve delivered, but there is huge room for improvement,” adding that “time is against us. We can’t waste games.” He said: “When opportunities are there for us, we must take them, because every game we don’t win it makes it harder for us to achieve our aims.”