JEDDAH: Lined up neatly inside a special Jeddah Superdome pavilion, a collection of 100 antique and classic cars has become the star attraction at the Jeddah International Motor Show. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Among the cars are vehicles used by the late King Fahd bin Abdulaziz and other high-profile owners, according to Capt. Talal bin Mansi, a renowned classic car enthusiast in the Kingdom and an international judge for classic cars. “We have the biggest collection of classic cars in the Middle East and we own over 500 cars. The Jeddah International Motor Show has been canceled for the past two years due to the coronavirus pandemic,” he said. “Our participation is totally different this year because we are bringing unique cars to the show, and we will also have a live auction on the last day to sell some of this fascinating display and other cars owned by our members.” Many celebrities and wealthy individuals are keen to own a classic car, “and some dedicate a space to them — inside a guest house or in the yard of their house.” Car enthusiasts, buyers and investors from around the world are among those attending the motor show, which runs until Dec. 10 and is a highlight of the Saudi automotive calendar. The special pavilion features iconic carmakers including Rolls-Royce, Ferrari, Mini, Mercedes and BMW. Chevy trucks, Corvettes and Fords are among other vehicles on show, with some vehicles dating back to the 1940s. •Among the cars are vehicles used by the late King Fahd bin Abdulaziz and other high-profile owners, according to Capt. Talal bin Mansi, a renowned classic car enthusiast in the Kingdom and an international judge for classic cars. •Many celebrities and wealthy individuals are keen to own a classic car, ‘and some dedicate a space to them — inside a guest house or in the yard of their house. Motor fans can also view the latest technologies and innovations in a wide range of vehicles, from sedans to hatchbacks to SUVs. The show also showcases crossover vehicles and luxury brands. Car club displays and promotions, car driving simulators, demo motorcycle games, drift rides, a “dream car” demonstration, kart racing experiences, a private auction and test drives will help visitors keep up to date with the latest in the automotive world. Bader bin Abdullah bin Muhanna Al-Delami, deputy minister of transport and road affairs, inaugurated the motor show and, afterwards, toured the exhibition for a glimpse of the latest designs and models unveiled by the biggest names in the automotive industry. The event, organized by the marketing firm SELA, is expected to attract over 250,000 visitors, including motor enthusiasts from across the Kingdom. Senior executives and managers from the auto manufacturers’ headquarters attended the opening day’s events and introduced new models to the show’s visitors. Manufacturers taking part in the show include GAC, Hongqi, Changan, MG, Toyota, Haval, Lexus, Chevrolet, Dongfeng, Infiniti, GMC, Cadillac, Mazda, Aston Martin and Kia. According to organizers, the show will help boost the Saudi automotive industry, and provide opportunities for international companies to invest in the Kingdom.