DUBAI: Saudi Arabia-based DJ Lujain Albishi, who goes by the stage name Biirdperson, is making waves in the Kingdom’s growing electronic music scene. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle She is set to take to the stage at Riyadh’s MDLBEAST SOUNDSTRORM music festival, taking place from Dec. 16-19. The filmmaker and DJ, named after a character from the animated television show “Rick and Morty,” has previously showcased her eclectic taste at the German consulate in Saudi Arabia, the Music Space in Jeddah, Vague in Riyadh and MDLBEAST Freqways in Bayada.  A post shared by Lujain Albishi (@biirdperson) “Witnessing the electronic music scene here in Saudi in its early stage and seeing it grow to form a strong community makes me want to be part of it, support it and delve deeper into it,” she said. Citing the likes of local artists Vinyl Mode, Hats and Klaps, Majid, Cosmicat and Baloo as well as international talents including Mihai Pol, David August and Kiasmos as inspirations, Albishi taught herself how to mix by observing the DJs she was constantly surrounded by in the local scene. “Because I’m a filmmaker, I used to film my DJ friends in every party or jam session they used to do back in the day. So, I developed my ears and picked up a few techniques and learned the basics from observing and filming them,” she explains.  A post shared by Lujain Albishi (@biirdperson) Then the coronavirus disease arrived, and the ensuing lockdowns created a prime opportunity for her to focus on her music and hone her skills. “If you want to pursue a career in music you have to be sure to explore all options and experiment with your sound,” she said. “Stay original and real. The best way to do that is to be yourself and not worry about what style is the most popular or follow the latest trend. Just focus on creating quality music that you love.”  A post shared by Lujain Albishi (@biirdperson) Although electronic music has become increasingly prevalent in Saudi Arabia, Biirdperson is one of a handful of female DJs making headway in the male-dominated scene. “Gender shouldn’t matter, we are all equally talented,” she said. “However, I believe with the pace it’s evolving, there will be more women taking up the stage and we will be seeing more female DJs in a few years. It’s happening now in the region… more females are getting confident and excited to share and celebrate their voices.”