DUBAI: US-Iraqi beauty mogul Huda Kattan has taken to social media to speak out about international warnings that Afghanistan is facing a famine, and urged her 2.3 million followers to help in any way they can. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle According to The Food and Agricultural Organization, the country is on the brink of a famine as 18.8 million Afghans are unable to feed themselves every day while nearly nine million people are close to starvation. Kattan said that the issue was brought to her attention by a close friend and it “broke her heart.” This week, she posted a CNN video report touching on the humanitarian crisis alongside a series of infographics. A post shared by Huda Kattan (@huda) “Hey my loves, this is hard to watch, but while we enjoy the holidays, children in Afghanistan wither away from starvation,” Kattan captioned the Instagram post. “I’m not sure if everyone is aware but Afghanistan is currently facing a catastrophic famine and without any aid, one million children will not survive this winter. This was brought to my attention by a close, dear friend and it broke my heart,” the Dubai-based entrepreneur and founder of the Huda Beauty brand, and skincare label Wishful, added. “I know how hard it is when you feel that you’re unable to make a difference, but just spreading awareness by sharing content can make a huge impact as well as helping charities out if you’re able to. Please swipe through and share with your friends!” Kattan is an avid humanitarian and has a well-documented track record of stepping up and helping those who need it most. A post shared by Huda Kattan (@huda) Earlier this year, the 38-year-old and her family donated $100,000 to Help India Breathe, a COVID-19 relief fundraiser launched by author Jay Shetty and his wife Radhika Devlukia-Shetty. She also donated $100,000 to Doctors Without Borders in Gaza. In April, Kattan took part in a food drive campaign launched by the ruler of Dubai, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al-Maktoum, donating one million meals to those less fortunate via her cosmetics company Huda Beauty.