The Diriyah Gate Development Authority has hosted a week-long series of activities to mark UNESCO’s World Arabic Language Day, celebrated on Dec. 18, to promote the significance of the Arabic language across its community.
To honor the theme for this year’s initiative — “Arabic Language, a bridge between civilizations” — the Diriyah community proudly showcased the importance of the language, its contribution to Saudi civilizations and Diriyah’s rich history and heritage and its aspirations for the future.
Tonight, the historic Salwa Palace will be illumined with original words and phrases from Diriyah dialect, creating the perfect background for an exciting light show as part of the celebration. The words projected in traditional Arabic calligraphy will highlight the richness of Saudi Arabia’s culture, focusing on generosity, hospitality, and benevolence.
Across shopping districts and at the King’s College in Diriyah, the DGDA community engagement team has been distributing stickers and stamps of Arabic phrases and words to students, residents, and guests, raising awareness on the importance of the World Arabic Language Day among the Diriyah community.
Engaging with a wider non-Arabic audience, DGDA is promoting an online Arabic dictionary to educate its guests and followers with common Saudi words and phrases across its digital and social media platforms. Furthermore, the DGDA community engagement team has invited young Saudis to participate in an online Arabic competition to showcase the best of their Arabic language knowledge, skills, and aptitude.
Haifa Al-Rwishid, community engagement officer for DGDA, said “the community’s response to the activities for World Arabic language Day is heart-warming, highlighting the importance and value of our mother tongue among our community. The Arabic language sits at the very foundation of Saudi Arabia’s history and heritage and will always be a guiding hand towards our journey to the future.
“From Diriyah and across the Arab world, we are all proud of the language that we share and remain committed to promoting, educating our youth and future generations with the skills, talents and knowledge of the Arabic language, its history and modern upkeep.”
To conclude the week-long celebration of World Arabic Language Day, the DGDA community engagement team will host a special workshop to promote Arabic writing and calligraphy for its youth. Forty young Arabic language enthusiasts will have the opportunity to participate in special sessions that will look to train young Saudis in calligraphy both as a hobby and profession.
“For DGDA, Arabic language promotion is essential for the Diriyah community’s development and preservation of its heritage as the Jewel of the Kingdom,” Al-Rwishid said. “Therefore, the community engagement team has designed workshops and activities that engage all community members to participate, engage and develop their knowledge and skill of the Arabic language.” 