RIYADH: Saudi rally champion Yazeed Al-Rajhi has been honored for winning the FIA World Cup for Cross-Country Bajas title for the first time in his career. The 40-year-old racer received his award during a prize-giving ceremony at the Carrousel du Louvre, in Paris, after becoming the first driver from the Kingdom to achieve the title in the highest rallying class, along with co-driver Michael Orr of Ireland. Al-Rajhi said: “It is great to be here tonight among various motorsports category winners such as Formula 1, WRC (World Rally Championship), and others. “It was a wonderful year for us, as Michael and I faced many challenges, both psychologically and physically, especially after we had an accident at the beginning of the year,” he added. The ceremony in France was attended by 800 driving champions, rising stars, and guests from around the world who saw Jean Todt, ex-president of the International Automobile Federation, hand Al-Rajhi the trophy. Having claimed the title with Toyota Hilux, Al-Rajhi also thanked official sponsor Abdul Latif Jameel Motors for its unlimited support throughout the season. His achievement was not only a personal one but also a landmark for Saudi motorsport, as he became the first driver from the country to be honored at the level by the FIA. On the challenges that he and Orr had faced on their way to victory, Al-Rajhi said: “We overcame aches and pains to win the title and did not give up because we were striving for this historic moment and this honor did not come from a vacuum but as a result of a great effort throughout the season. Here we are today, achieving our goals for the country. “What my team has done this year is fantastic and legendary with my co-driver Michael Orr in our Toyota Hilux fully supported by Abdul Latif Jameel Motors. I would like to thank all the team members for their support and hard work throughout the season,” he added. Al-Rajhi dedicated his win to King Salman and Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman for their unlimited support to the sports and all Saudi athletes and drivers inside and outside the country. He also thanked Minister of Sport Prince Abdulaziz bin Turki Al-Faisal, Saudi Automobile and Motorcycle Federation Chairman Prince Khalid bin Sultan Al-Abdullah Al-Faisal, the Saudi people, and motorsport fans globally for their support.