RIYADH: One of the region’s most formidable fitness challenges returns to Saudi Arabia in January as Riyadh and the Saudi Sports for All Federation (SFA) prepare to host the Spartan Race. Inspired by the warrior culture of ancient Sparta and featuring dozens of obstacles designed to test strength, stamina, endurance and perseverance, Spartan Races have become popular across the globe since launching in 2010, with more than 2,500 annual events across 42 countries to date. “We’re excited again to host this incredible event back in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and to showcase the country’s role in hosting several local and global sporting events,” said SFA President Prince Khaled bin Alwaleed bin Talal Al-Saud. “The Spartan Race is a great way for everybody in our fitness community to test their limits. It’s also a lot of fun, and with races for all ages and experience levels, it’s a great way to enjoy yourself while staying active, fit and healthy.” Saudi Arabia’s first Spartan Race took place in Riyadh in 2016, with the following race being hosted in the mountains of Al-Soudah during the Asir Season in 2019, where more than 1,500 competitors and spectators took part. The race returns to Riyadh on Jan. 21 at Dirab Park from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m. Six races will be staged during the day, giving people of all ages, genders and fitness levels an opportunity to take part. The Spartan Super race is open to both males and females and will take place over a 10km course, with 25 obstacles to overcome, including mud, water, fire and barbed wire. Two Spartan Sprint races will take place – one mixed for males and females, and one for females only. Both will take place over 5km, with 20 obstacles. Three Spartan Kids races will also take place for different age groups. The 4 to 6-year-old race will take place over 800 meters, with the 7 to 9-year-old race over 1.6km, and the 10 to 14-year-old race over 3.2km. All Spartan Kids races are open to both genders. “Events like this reinforce the SFA’s role to enhancing the health and wellbeing of the nation, and if the previous editions are anything to go by, we can expect a huge turnout from participants who share in our vision of a fitter, more active Saudi Arabia,” Prince Khaled said. Supported by the Ministry of Sport and the Saudi Arabian Olympic Committee, the SFA is mandated by Vision 2030’s Quality of Life Program to increase the ratio of people in the Kingdom exercising on a regular basis to 40 percent by 2030.