DUBAI: The 2021 Model of the Year Awards has unveiled its full list of winners, with part-Arab catwalkers making their mark. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The Models.com gongs were split into seven categories of male and female model of the year, and breakout star, social mover of the year, top model turned actor, and lifetime achievement award. Egyptian-Moroccan-Dutch model Imaan Hammam was nominated for the social mover award alongside other big names such as Karlie Kloss, Emily Ratajkowski, Ashley Graham, Indira Scott, and Arizona Muse. A post shared by Rawdah (@rawdis) Somali-Norwegian model and editor Rawdah Mohamed was also nominated in the category, reserved for models who had used their heightened platform to change the world for the better. Hammam, 25, was put forward for the title following her work with She’s The First, a grassroots organization that helps empower young women through education globally. British model Adwoah Aboah was voted social mover of the year, with Hammam runner-up in the industry vote. Part-Palestinian model Bella Hadid took the top spot in the public vote. A post shared by Imaan Hammam (@imaanhammam) Hammam and Hadid were not the only part-Arabs to receive nods in Models.com’s annual awards, which saw American Kristen McMenamy, 57, take home the female model of the year prize. Algerian-French model Loli Bahia was nominated for breakout star along with other industry newcomers such as Grace Valentine, Georgia Palmer, and Estelle Chen. The breakout star award is given to those that have racked up coveted campaigns and impressive editorial work in a short period of time and are set to leave a lasting mark on the industry. A post shared by @lolibahiaa Bahia, 19, who has walked for the likes of Chanel, Saint Laurent, Fendi, Givenchy, and Valentino came second in the public vote behind American model Quannah Chasinghorse, who also took top spot in the eyes of the industry insiders. As for Arab men, French-Algerian model Takfarines Bengana was among the male nominees for breakout star. A post shared by Takfarines BENGANA (@takbenga) Other notable winners included “Squid Games” star HoYeon Jung, who was voted top model turned actor in the industry and public polls. Models.com’s 2021 lifetime achievement award was presented to iconic British supermodel Kate Moss, 47.