JEDDAH: The eyes of the sporting world will turn to Jeddah on Sunday as the inagural Saudi Arabian Grand Prix revs into action under the lights along Jeddah's Corniche coast. Seven-time world champion Lewis Hamilton starts the race in pole position after Saturday's qualifying session, while his world championship title rival Max Verstappen starts in third. The Dutchman holds an eight-point advantage over the British legend in the championship standings, and could potentially seal the title in Saudi Arabia if Hamilton has a calamitous race. Follow all the action here throughout the evening. (All times AST) 19:50 - A nice moment on the track, as the drivers and teams take a moment of silence to honor the late Frank Williams, former principal of his namesake team and who had a long association with Saudi motorsport.  19:30 - With the race just an hour away, F1 fans from all over the world made their way to the Jeddah Corniche Circuit by the Red Sea for the Kingdom’s inaugural Grand Prix. Read more from the fans below... The countdown to big Saudi race has F1 fans awaiting serious action. Click here for more.  18:45 - It was a dramatic F2 race, the event which is run before the Formula 1, as Enzo Fittipaldi and Theo Pourchaire have a huge collision on the starting grid. Both drivers were transferred to a local hospital concsious, and the race was run with half points being awarded. #LIVE: Dramatic crash in F2 race before main event, where #Pourchaire and #Fittipaldi were immediately attended to by emergency medical crews, extricated by the attending medical crews and transferred to King Fahad Armed Forces Hospital, #Jeddah #F2Saudi https://t.co/CQcmOxIoVK pic.twitter.com/3VFNNgzTPd — Arab News (@arabnews) December 5, 2021 17:30 - Fans are streaming in, and we still have three hours left until lights out. Teams are busy in the pitlane making last minute changes and fine tuning the cars before the big race. PHOTOS: A view of the pitlane and the front of the starting grid of the @SaudiArabianGP, which will rev into action in 3 hours #SaudiArabianGP #Jeddah https://t.co/CQcmOxIoVK pic.twitter.com/Z2AQQS4spm — Arab News (@arabnews) December 5, 2021 15:45 - In case you missed it, Arab News spoke to Saudi trailblazing female racing driver Reema Juffali ahead of the race, see what she makes of Jeddah hosting Formula One and who she thinks will win below... Formula One is transforming Jeddah, says Saudi trailblazer Reema Juffali. Click here for more.  15:00 - Saudi Arabia's sport minister Prince Abdulaziz bin Turki Al-Faisal was impressed with what he saw on Friday, and is looking forward to the big race today... An exciting new chapter begins with the practice sessions of the F1 STC Saudi Arabia Grand Prix. Looking forward to the grand competition! Welcome to Jeddah. #OverTakeTheFuture#SaudiArabianGP pic.twitter.com/PbKZTwKsLj — عبدالعزيز بن تركي الفيصل (@AbdulazizTF) December 3, 2021