There was more drama and excitement in the semi-finals of the 2021 FIFA Arab Cup Wednesday as Tunisia defeated Egypt 1-0 at the 974 Stadium in Qatar with a late, late winner.
Below are five things we learned.
1. Fitting that a set-piece won it for Tunisia
Tunisia won thanks to a 95th-minute own goal from Egyptian captain Amr El-Solia. It was no surprise that the decisive moment came via a set-piece. The Carthage Eagles had 10 corners to Egypt’s one and, as they struggled to create clear chances in open play against their North African rivals, they had plenty of chances to get their eye in when it came to putting crosses into the area.
Their best two opportunities before the goal both came from corners. In the first half, defender Montassar Talbi came closest. He timed his run perfectly and really should have done better than head over the bar while unmarked on the edge of the six-yard box. The tournament’s leading goalscorer, Seifeddine Jaziri, did something similar with just two minutes of normal time remaining and it looked then as if the Tunisians would be left to regret their misses.
However, a stoppage-time free-kick from the left was sent into the danger area and there was the unfortunate Egyptian skipper rising to head the ball over his diving goalkeeper and into the net. Cue some delirious celebrations in one end of the stadium and deathly silence in the other.
2. Not fair for Queiroz to blame the referee
Egypt coach Carlos Queiroz can be a prickly character and is never afraid to speak his mind. The former Real Madrid boss blasted the referee for damaging his players psychologically. In the second half, a penalty was awarded to Tunisia after referee Alireza Faghani ruled that Ahmed Hegazi had bundled over Mohammed Ali Ben Romdhane in the area.
The Iranian official was advised by VAR officials to go and consult the pitchside monitor. After just a quick look, he reversed his original call, and rightly so.
“How can a referee damage my team psychologically with a penalty,” Queiroz said immediately after the game. “With a decision that everybody in the stadium knew it wasn’t a penalty. He damaged my team psychologically. I hope FIFA make a good analysis about how he refereed this game.”
The claim that the initial decision upset his players psychologically seems a little far-fetched. Egypt actually went on to create their best chance not long after. Surely the Portuguese boss would not have preferred that the original decision had stood and Tunisia given the penalty. It was a tight game and tough to lose in the last minute, but the referee was not to blame.
3. Meriah’s injury a turning point
A first final appearance since they won the 1963 Arab Cup is a just reward for Tunisia’s efforts over the past two weeks. Losing the influential Yassine Meriah from the middle of the back line to injury in the first half was a blow, as the big center-back had played every second of the tournament until then. However, it meant that coach Mondher Kebaier ditched his three-man defense and switched to a 4-3-3 formation instead, with the result being a more balanced midfield.
It also allowed the impressive Manchester United teenager Hannibal Mejbri to have more influence on the game and his movement caused Egypt problems, especially late in the game when they began to tire. Mejbri was supported by Mohamed Drager and the pair had some joy on the right side of attack.
Tunisia will be hard to beat in the final against North African rivals Algeria and have shown they can adapt quickly to various in-game situations and remain dangerous.
4. Egypt lacked creativity
This was Egypt’s first defeat in 19 games, since their elimination from the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations, and while it surely hurts, there can’t be too many complaints, even if the timing and the nature of the goal were cruel.
Tunisia had more possession but the Pharaohs had real chances to win the game before the late, late drama. The best came with 15 minutes remaining, when Mostafa Fathi shot over from close range just as teammate Marwan Hamdy was about to have an attempt of his own.
There were not enough chances created, however. Egypt were very well-organized, worked hard and were hard to beat, but they needed more spark going forward. There were injuries leading up to the game and, of course, the team missed Mohamed Salah, one of the best players in the world, but Egypt still stopped Tunisia from having any real clear chances in open play and that is another big plus to take from the Arab Cup.
5. Pharaohs still have third place to play for
It is natural that there was huge disappointment at losing a semi-final in a tournament but, before it all started, Queiroz was clear that the Arab Cup was about getting ready for the Africa Cup of Nations in January and the final round of 2022 World Cup qualifiers. In that sense, the tournament was a big success for Egypt and they will now have another competitive game — and it will be a good one against the hosts Qatar.
Usually, many supporters care little as to which team finishes third or fourth in the Arab Cup, but with Qatar keen to end on a high in front of a big crowd, it will be another valuable game for Queiroz to look at his players. Overall, it has been a valuable tournament that should really show its worth in the first quarter of 2022.