RIYADH: Saudi Arabia’s Madrasati education platform has been praised by UNESCO in its most recent publication. The UN body highlighted its success due to its innovative and operational educational model during the COVID-19 pandemic. In the mid-November report, titled “Learning to Build Back Better Futures For Education: Lessons from educational innovation during the COVID-19 pandemic,” a chapter was dedicated to the Madrasati platform and the Kingdom’s other educational alternatives, such as the satellite broadcasting school and the iEN Enrichment Portal. It referred to the success of the distance education experience in the Kingdom. Authored by international researchers and edited by Harvard Education professors Fernando Reimers and Renato Opertti from UNESCO’s International Bureau of Education in Geneva, the report selected the platform for its effective contribution to the continuation of nonstop distance education in Saudi Arabia. In the mid-November report, a chapter was dedicated to the Madrasati platform and the Kingdom’s other educational alternatives, such as the satellite broadcasting school and the iEN Enrichment Portal. It also highlighted the strong role of teachers, their level of training, and parents’ satisfaction with the extent to which teachers interacted with their students. It described Madrasati as the leading Saudi model, adding that it has achieved global recognition in the education sector. The chapter also highlighted the strong role of teachers, their level of training, and parents’ satisfaction with the extent to which teachers interacted with their students. The section also touched on the Saudi students’ reaction towards e-learning, interaction with their peers and teachers, and the ease of use of the main interface of the Madrasati platform. The UN report covered the partnership between Madrasati and Microsoft, a solidarity program from the nonprofit sector to support students from low-income families, and the participation of the Ministry of Education with the Ministry of Communications and Information Technology to ensure that students living in remote areas had proper internet access and strengthened services.