RIYADH: The “Fashion Futures” event, organized by the Saudi Fashion Commission, was launched on Friday at the Culture Palace in the Diplomatic Quarter in Riyadh. The launch was attended by fashion industry experts from the Kingdom and around the world. The two-day event will link prominent actors and leaders of creativity in the fashion world and simultaneously host workshops and panel discussions from three platforms in Riyadh, New York and Paris. The event gathers local and international fashion experts together to discuss diversity, innovation, entrepreneurship and sustainability. During the opening ceremony, Princess Noura bint Faisal Al-Saud, general manager of ecosystem integration and programme delivery at the Saudi Fashion Commission, said that the event was a true reflection of what the commission was there to do. “It is to enable and create a platform for the Saudi fashion sector and our homegrown talent to connect, but also to enable conversations and knowledge-sharing across fashion communities on where the industry is heading and the part we will all need to play in its future,” she said. Princess Noura said that this was a special time for the creative and cultural industries in Saudi Arabia. “Other events are underway across the Kingdom that illustrate the vibrancy of the sector and efforts in light of Vision 2030 to diversify not just our economy but our creative offering to the world.” She said that one of the most rewarding projects for the commission was launching the Saudi 100 brand program. She said that the program was outstanding and had received more that 1,400 applications. “It’ll be a moment I will treasure forever, a moment where the application showed the depth of fashion talent in our country,” she said. “Some brands had over a decade of experience honoring their craft and pursuing their creative dreams. Others were fresh startups with bold and innovative approaches, incorporating the latest technologies and trends.” Princess Noura said that the program aimed to support Saudi women who aspired to reach leadership positions across the fashion sector. “I am so humbled to be working amid our fashion talents. I’m glad that all of you will get to see what I am privileged to see every day.” She highlighted the commission’s role in encouraging and empowering the Kingdom’s fashion industry. The Fashion Futures event is set to attract the best regional and international speakers, discuss important issues in the industry and provide an excellent opportunity to learn. Prior to the event, Wayne Borg, managing director of media, entertainment, cultural and fashion industries at NEOM, affirmed the pride in supporting Fashion Futures. “Our aspirations and strategy for the fashion sector revolve around the fact that concepts of sustainability are fast on their way to becoming a license to operate for brands in the field of fashion,” he said. “We are pleased to be part of this event.” Fashion Futures is the latest development in the local fashion sector. It is one of the initiatives of the Saudi Fashion Commission, through which it seeks to be a global event in the region, aiming to make the Kingdom a leading center for fashion that highlights local talent and capabilities. The event will continue until Sunday, Dec. 11, bringing together influential leaders and icons, including Jordana Guimaraes, co-founder of Fashinnovation, Thana Al-Harbi, co-founder of Coded Nation, and Arizona Muse, a model and sustainability consultant and environmental activist.