DUBAI: Part-Saudi model Shanina Shaik’s latest expedition was in the UAE. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The 30-year-old fashion star, who is of Saudi, Pakistani, Lithuanian and Australian descent, seemed to enjoy her trip, posting a bevy of photos from the country for her 2.5 million Instagram followers. Shaik’s trip was to attend the Global Citizen Forum, which took place this week in the emirate of Ras Al-Khaimah.  A post shared by Global Citizen Forum (@globalcitizenforum) Before the event, the supermodel shared a sneak peak of her hotel view and a picture of the city. “It’s beautiful here,” Shaik wrote, captioning the images shared on her Instagram Stories. Global Citizen Forum began on Dec. 12, and artists, entrepreneurs, economists, changemakers and leaders were invited to discuss “human mobility and steps toward a more sustainable future.” The event’s annual summits — previously hosted in Dubai, Toronto, Monaco and Sveti Stefan — have each welcomed more than 500 guests from more than 65 countries.  A post shared by Global Citizen Forum (@globalcitizenforum) The two-day event’s guest list included A-list celebrities such as US singer Nicole Scherzinger, US actress and philanthropist Eva Longoria, US-Somali model Halima Aden, Dutch DJ Afrojack, Grammy award-winning artist Wyclef Jean and more. Scherzinger sang her hit “Don’t Cha” to the attendees, while Jean performed Bob Marley’s “No Woman, No Cry” and his song “Hips Don’t Lie” with Latin-Arab singer Shakira.  A post shared by Halima (@halima) On Monday, Aden took to social media to share her excitement about speaking at the event. “You know it’s a great day when you get to ride on a camel & speak at Global Citizen Forum,” wrote the model, sharing a picture of her camel ride experience by the beach in Ras Al-Khaimah. Among the guests at the event was Dubai-based Egyptian influencer and entrepreneur Hadia Ghaleb who presented the performers and documented her experience with her 2.1 million Instagram followers.   The social media star shared a video of her and Aden dancing on the event’s second day to Jean’s “Hips Don’t Lie.” Shaik jetted to the UAE fresh from a trip to Saudi Arabia, where she attended the F1 Saudi Arabian Grand Prix and the opening of the Red Sea International Film Festival. The model made sure to champion Arab designer talent during her trip and showed off a striking black number by Lebanese-helmed label-of-the-moment Monot.