DUBAI: Over the weekend, our social media feeds were flooded with images of regional influencers and celebrities donning creative costumes and spooky get-ups as they celebrated Halloween, marked on Oct. 31. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Dubai-based Lebanese influencer Karen Wazen was among the Arab stars to get in on the fun this year, sharing an adorable picture of children, twin girls Karlie and Kay and a boy named George, dressed up as DC Comics characters Harley Quinn and the Joker. A post shared by Karen Wazen Bakhazi (@karenwazen) “Say hello to Harley Twinn & Georker,” she captioned the series of images. The family celebrated “the perfect day” at Abu Dhabi’s Warner Bros. World theme park, per Wazen’s post. Elsewhere, Kuwaiti fashion influencer Fatima Al-Momen emulated Audrey Hepburn’s iconic bridal look in the classic film “Funny Face.” A post shared by Fatima Almomen (@falmomen) Al-Momen wore a silk white corset top and a matching long skirt, which she accessorized with opera gloves and a veil accented by a bow at the top. For his part, celebrity makeup artist Mohammed Hindash looked like a real-life supervillain with his ultra-realistic “Venom” costume. A post shared by hindash (@hindash) Meanwhile, Dubai-based Lebanese beauty influencer Maya Ahmad showcased her impressive makeup skills by way of an artistic Halloween look that proved that sometimes all you need for a spectacular transformation is an inspired makeup job. Halloween has been extra festive this year, as spooky season fans get into the holiday spirit after last year’s at-home festivities. A post shared by MAYA (@themayaahmad) While Halloween parties and trick-or-treating were strictly off-limits in 2020 due to pandemic restrictions, this year saw the return of safe celebrations. Celebrities have gone all out, taking over our Instagram feeds with intricate and creative costumes. Case in point: Model Hailey Bieber, who channeled Britney Spears in several of the pop icon’s music videos, including “Hit Me Baby One More Time” and “Oops! I Did it Again.” A post shared by Kendall (@kendalljenner) Kendall Jenner transformed herself into a high-fashion “Corpse Bride,” painting her entire body blue for a striking Halloween photo-op, shared on her Instagram. Newly engaged couple Travis Barker and Kourtney Kardashian decided to dress up as Sex Pistols bassist Sid Vicious and his girlfriend Nancy Spungen, and “Rumors” singer Lizzo stepped out in an impressive “Baby Yoda” costume.