DUBAI: British singer Zayn Malik has denied claims that he assaulted his partner Gigi Hadid’s mother, Yolanda, in a case that has garnered international media attention. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Malik took to social media and issued a separate statement to TMZ news website stating that he did not hit Yolanda Hadid, after the website first reported claims of an altercation based on an unnamed source. Zayn's statement to TMZ read: “I adamantly deny striking Yolanda Hadid and for the sake of my daughter I decline to give any further details and I hope that Yolanda will reconsider her false allegations and move towards healing these family issues in private.” The singer, who shares a one-year-old daughter with Gigi, did not directly address the allegations in a statement posted on Twitter, but he did ask for privacy. pic.twitter.com/Idwdx1PZdB — zayn (@zaynmalik) October 28, 2021 “As you all know I am a private person and I very much want to create a safe and private space for my daughter to grow up in. A place where private family matters aren’t thrown on the world stage for all to poke and pick apart,” Malik began his statement. Malik said he agreed to “not contest claims arising from an argument I had with a family member of my partner’s who entered our home while my partner was away several weeks ago.” The singer continued, “This was and still should be a private matter but it seems for now there is divisiveness and despite my efforts to restore us to a peaceful family environment that will allow for me to co-parent my daughter in a manner in which she deserves, this has been ‘leaked’ to the press. “I am hopeful though for healing for all involved with the harsh words shared and more importantly I remain vigilant to protect Khai and give her the privacy she deserves,” he wrote, referring to his daughter. Gigi Hadid’s representative has released a statement, saying: “Gigi is solely focused on the best for Khai. She asks for privacy during this time.”