DUBAI: Abu Dhabi Media has launched Majid Universe, a new app that will be home to kids’ favorite animated characters from the pan-Arab children’s comic magazine, TV channel and website, “Majid.” The paid app will feature a library with over 800 hours of content including live and animated TV shows, games, and the original “Majid” magazines dating back to 1979, some of which have never been seen by audiences before. Designed to be family-friendly, the app allows users to sign in via a single account across five devices and create personalized avatars and playlists for each user. “Building on a legacy that spans over four decades of original beloved IPs, the Majid Universe App is groundbreaking in its own right. Not only does it feature the region’s largest library of Arabic original programming, animated and live-action, it’s also the first-ever multi-experiential app for children in the Middle East, offering video content, e-magazines and interactive games, a reflection of the holistic value that ultimately sets the Majid Universe apart,” said Mariam Al-Serkal, head of Majid Platform at ADM. The launch of the app comes 42 years after the magazine’s debut in 1979 and represents the latest in the ongoing stories of various “Majid” characters that have been told over four decades via several formats, including an animated series, TV channel and a monthly print publication. The Majid Universe app also grants users access to exclusive “Majid” world content, including the series “My Little Pony,” “Charley Goes to School,” the animated editions of the original “Peanuts” comic strips, “Mick the Mini Chef,” “Pablo,” and Anitta, the club focusing on wellness issues, community and original songs performed by the host. Users will also have access to “Freej” and the “Mansour” comedy series, as well as exclusive ADM content, including Majid TV’s first girl power superheroine “ZAKIA,” brand-new bedtime stories from Amoona, and animations of the “Hikayat Abo Al Thurafaa” comic series. “We can’t wait for both children and adults to connect with Majid’s extensive library of both nostalgic and modern content that speaks to today’s audience in unique, accessible and entertaining ways,” added Al-Serkal. The Majid Universe app is available on iOS, Google Play, Android TV, Apple TV, and Smart TVs on a subscription of AED/SR 16.99/month ($4.53) or 132.99/year in the UAE and Saudi Arabia, and EGP 39.99/month ($2.55) or 309.99/year in Egypt.