SANAA: A child was among 13 people killed when a missile fired by Yemeni rebels struck a tribal leader’s home south of the strategic city of Marib, military and medical sources said on Friday.
	“A Houthi ballistic missile hit the house of Sheikh Abdul Latif Al-Qibli in Al-Jawba on Thursday evening during a meeting with tribal leaders fighting on the government’s side,” a government military official said.
	“Thirteen people, including a child, were killed,” he added. The death toll was confirmed by a medical source in the area. #WATCH: "What are those people guilty of?" an eye witness asks, following Friday's deadly #Houthi missile attack on a tribal leader's house in #Marib that killed 13 people, including a child: https://t.co/feVZeqfA3s pic.twitter.com/ClFEYCgins — Arab News (@arabnews) October 30, 2021 As well as the child, Thursday evening’s missile strike also killed four tribal leaders, said the military official.
	At least 11 houses were damaged and 16 civilians were wounded in the attack, according to the officials.
	Yemen’s Information Minister Moammar Al-Eryani said on Twitter that at least 12 people were killed, including two sons of Al-Qibli, whose fate was unknown. The Houthi “militia continues to systematically and deliberately bombard villages and homes ... in order to inflict max casualties among civilians” forcing hundreds of families and displaced to flee, he wrote.
	The Arab coalition backing Yemen’s government has been conducting a fierce air campaign since Oct. 11 to prevent the rebels from reaching Marib city.
	Since then, about 2,000 Houthi fighters have been killed in Al-Jawba, about 50 km south of Marib, and two other districts, according to the coalition.
	Fierce fighting has gripped Al-Jawba district in recent days.
	Earlier this month, the Houthi rebels advanced in the district of Abdiya, south of the city of Marib.
	The Houthis “are committing genocide” in Abdiya, preventing food, medicine and other basic needs from reaching the district, said Marib provincial Gov. Sheikh Sultan Al-Aradah. 