DUBAI: Jennifer Gates, the daughter of Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, has married Egyptian equestrian Nayel Nasser, it has been reported. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The two tied the knot at her farm in North Salem, New York. The 25-year-old wore a custom Vera Wang gown, as per reports. Media outlets also reported that the newlyweds held a private Muslim ceremony the night before Saturday’s 300-guest celebration. Nassar, 29, proposed to Gates, who has a degree in human biology, in January during a ski trip. In September, Gates posted a picture on her Instagram of the two in a sweet embrace. Nayel commented on the post, “Can't wait for forever with you.” A post shared by Jennifer Katharine (@jenniferkgates) She also shared another photo in May from what appears to be their engagement photo shoot, writing, “I can hardly wait to marry you!” The two have been together since January 2017, bonding over their passion for equestrian sports, with Gates also being an equestrian athlete who competes frequently, but not on a professional level like Nassar. Both belong to the Paris Panthers, a riding club which competes in different forms of equestrian sporting events. In an interview with equestrian-focused publication Sidelines Magazine, the 25-year-old Stanford graduate said: “Nayel always reminds me to believe in myself, which is so important. I’m so lucky to have him as a partner.” A post shared by Jennifer Katharine (@jenniferkgates) He’s incredibly supportive, humble and loyal, and someone that I look forward to building a life with.” Nassar was born to millionaire parents in Chicago in the US, but was raised in Kuwait. His parents run an architecture and design firm which relocated to the US in 2009. Nassar, who graduated from Stanford University with a degree in economics, began riding when he was five, and was jumping by the age of 10. He first qualified in 2013 for the FEI World Cup Finals, an annual international competition which includes the most skilled and talented show jumping horses and riders.