DUBAI: US actress Kiernan Shipka took to Instagram in an all-black look by Lebanese designer Elie Saab this week — just in time for spooky season. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Shipka, who plays teenage witch Sabrina Spellman on Netflix’s hit show “Chilling Adventures of Sabrina,” opted for the chic look while on a press tour. The actress showed off a below-the-knee cocktail dress by Saab, complete with a tulle skirt and lace detailing on the cap sleeves and high collar. The glamorous dress hails from the designer’s Fall/Winter 2021 ready-to-wear collection. A post shared by Kiernan Shipka (@kiernanshipka) Shipka’s character is set to make an appearance on hit show “Riverdale” as part of a crossover event between the two popular series. She will appear in five episodes of the sinister teen show, which showrunner Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa called “really fun and special.” “We’ve been talking about having Sabrina visit ‘Riverdale’ since season 1, so it’s thrilling that this is finally happening as part of our ‘Riverdale’ special event. It’s also perfect that she shows up to help Cheryl Blossom during her hour of greatest need. Everyone on set lost their minds — I think fans will, too. It’s really fun and special,” he said in a previous statement, referring to one of the show’s lead characters. Sabrina will arrive on “Riverdale” in season 6’s fourth episode, titled “The Witching Hour(s).” Proving she is the queen of all things creepy, Shipka also stars in a Halloween podcast movie called “Treat,” which will debut on all major podcast platforms on Oct. 25. In it, she plays Allie West, a high school student in a seemingly perfect American town that makes a deal with a mysterious outsider possessing supernatural powers. “I’m thrilled to be playing Allie — she’s a strong-willed, complex young girl with a true weight on her shoulders: She has to be the adult in her family, but she’s still just a teenager coming of age, and being able to play her and navigate her world is really fulfilling,” Shipka said in a previous statement reported by Variety. “‘Treat’ is a one-of-a-kind thrilling audio movie and story, and I’m so excited to be part of this experience with C13Features,” she added, referring to the studio behind the feature-length podcast.