DUBAI: The fashion campaigns just keep rolling in for Malika El-Maslouhi. The Moroccan-Italian model was selected to star in the new Frame Fall 2022 campaign, which was shot by the Los Angeles-based brand’s art director and photographer Caitlin Taffs. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The half-Arab catwalker appears in a series of images wearing key pieces from American design duo Jens Grede and Erik Torstensson’s latest ready-to-wear offering. A post shared by FRAME (@frame) For the campaign, the 22-year-old posed against a white backdrop wearing an oversized denim jacket layered with a white button up that was opened to reveal a black shirt underneath. The look was paired with relaxed trousers and white leather shoes. El-Maslouhi also appears in the photographs wearing a leather, cropped sweater with tie-up pants as well as a leather trench coat. Moroccan-Egyptian-Dutch model Imaan Hammam also partnered with the Los Angeles-based label last year on a signature capsule collection boasting 20 pieces that launched during New York Fashion Week. El-Maslouhi, who was born in Milan to an Italian mother and a Moroccan father, is one of the most in-demand models in the fashion industry at the moment. A post shared by MALIKA (@malika.elmaslouhi) The catwalk star, who made her modelling debut when she was 18-years-old, has had a stellar Fall 2022 season, gracing the runways of storied fashion houses in New York, London, Milan and Paris and walking for the likes of Ulla Johnson, Prabal Gurung, David Koma, Boss, Missoni, Messika and more. In the past, she has walked for Dior, Chanel and Valentino, among others, in addition to appearing in international campaigns for prestigious brands like Lanvin and Dundas. Meanwhile, she was recently tapped to be the ambassador of luxury womenswear label La Perla’s new beauty line, La Perla Beauty. The model was selected to be the face of the French brand’s signature scent. A post shared by MALIKA (@malika.elmaslouhi) And when she’s not modelling collections, she’s helping design them. She recently teamed up with London-based retailer Ishkar on a range of necklaces handcrafted by jewelers in Kabul, Afghanistan. The collection includes the Malika Choker, a handwoven, gold-plated piece complete with an adjustable M clasp that can be worn in a variety of ways that retails for $101, with 20 percent of the sale going toward the Turquoise Mountain Foundation, a non-governmental organization that supports small businesses in Afghanistan and the Middle East.