ABU DHABI: MMA fans in the Middle East should prepare for “major, massive things” in Abu Dhabi, UFC President Dana White told an expectant crowd at the UFC 267 press conference at Etihad Arena on Friday. With a host of fighters from Saturday’s main card on stage behind him, White told fans: “We have major massive plans for Abu Dhabi. Wait and see.” He added: “Abu Dhabi has been instrumental in what we have done in the past 10 years and is going to get even more instrumental. Just look at this card. We’ve got the toughest guys from all over the world here. It doesn’t get cooler than that.” Light heavyweight champion Jan Blachowicz drew laughs from crowd when he promised main event opponent Glover Teixeira a belated birthday present on Saturday night. Teixeira turned 42 on Thursday and Blachowicz said: “I will give you your present on Saturday. It’s not the belt, but you will like it.” To which Teixeira,the division’s No.1 contender, responded: “I’ll look forward to it. He’s a fighter, he’s determined. I’m honored to be fighting him. We are going to show these kids how to fight.” Islam Makachev drew the biggest cheer of the night when he walked out, before proclaiming: “Abu Dhabi is my place, I have a lot of support here.” The Russian fighter said: “I have to show my best because I’m very close to the title.” Makachev, who faces New Zealand’s Dan Hooker in a lightweight fight, is looking to make it 10 straight wins. Hooker, who lost to debutant Michael Chandler on his last Abu Dhabi appearance back in January, said: “In this game you’ve got to be ready for anything. I’m in enemy territory. I’m sure I’ll have a few people supporting me, I’m here, I’m ready. Just being myself.” Peter Yan, who faces Corey Sandhagen for the interim bantamweight title in the co-main event on Saturday after champion Aljamain Sterling withdrew, told fans: “I’m the champion and I will prove it.” Sandhagen said: “I think he does a job defending himself. He wears people down, but we are prepared for that. It’s going to be a good fight.” Sweden’s Khamzat Chimaev, who burst onto the UFC scene with impressive performances on Fight Island in July 2020, drew applause when he brought out his now famous “smesh” (Smash) phrase. Responding to a question about having a large following in this region, Chimaev said: “I love my fans. I will smash anything for them.” Chimaev’s welterweight opponent, Li Jianlang, nicknamed “The Leech,” said: “I’m good enough to stand with him. It will be a great fight and that’s what the fans want to see.” Turning to his rival, he said: “You may be the wolf, you may be hungry. But I’m the leech, and I’m thirsty.” Limited tickets are still available for the first full-capacity live event in Abu Dhabi since the start of the pandemic.