The Cairo Water Week, considered the biggest water-related event in Egypt, aims to promote water awareness and discuss innovative approaches to face the most pressing water-related challenges.
	Dr. Turki Faisal Al-Rasheed will participate in the Cairo Water Week conference, which will take place from Oct. 24-28.
	The conference theme is “Water, Population and Global Changes: Challenges and Opportunities.” Organized by the Stockholm International Water Institute, in coordination with the Stockholm Environment Institute, the week is considered the biggest water-related event in Egypt.
	It aims to promote water awareness and discuss innovative approaches to face the most pressing water-related challenges. Dr. Al-Rasheed’s talk is titled “Could private investment contribute to just resilience and food security in climate-affected agriculture? Gulf-East Africa linkages.” He will deliver the talk on Oct. 27 at 2.55 p.m. (Egypt time). Dr. Al-Rasheed will discuss the transboundary investment that provides Saudi Arabia’s food security and regional security. The African countries will achieve sustainability’s triple bottom line (profit, people, and planet) from transboundary investments. Saudi Arabia and African countries are facing various challenges to meet sustainability, such as climate change, food security, and water security resilience. The agriculture sector is the foremost consumer of water in Saudi Arabia at 84 percent, while the world consumes 70 percent of total water requirements. The Saudi predicament regarding water scarcity has driven the leadership to outsource food security internationally.
	Saudi Arabia’s investment in African countries is one of the best alternatives for securing food security because several of these countries enjoy fertile soil, an abundance of water, low-cost labor, and are neighboring Muslim countries. The Cairo Water Week 2021 is organized around five themes: Water and Global Change, Advances in Water Management, Water and Society, Regional and Sectoral Cooperation for Water Security, and Innovation in Hydro-Sciences.
	The five related themes and a number of subtopics will be addressed during the event through various plenary and technical sessions that will be organized by reputable international and regional organizations including the Food and Agriculture Organization, UN Development Program, the World Bank, Economic, and Social Commission for West Asia, the UN Educational Scientific and Cultural Organization, and many other high-level international institutions. Dr. Al-Rasheed is the co-author of “Public Governance and Strategic Management Capabilities: Public Governance in the Gulf States” with Paul Joyce. He is now writing “Saudi Arabia’s Transformation: Sustainability and Uncertainty” together with Joyce. He is an adjunct professor at the University of Arizona, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Department of Biosystems Engineering.