DUBAI: Miss Universe UAE has unveiled 15 out of the 30 finalists set to compete in the inaugural beauty pageant. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle Organizers took to social media on Thursday to reveal the names of the first contestants, along with their ages and where they live. The finalists from Dubai include Dilnoza, 23, Alma, Emilia, Natalia, and Anita, all 24, 25-year-olds Sara and Reem, Bahar and Victoria, 26, Franki, 27, and Anna and Asher, 28. A post shared by Miss Universe UAE (@missuniverseuae) Jasmin, 22, and Razan, 28, from Abu Dhabi, will compete in the next stage. The one contestant from Sharjah was named as Marwa, 23. Fifteen contestants, out of the 30 models, will be selected on Nov. 5 and the Miss Universe UAE winner will be announced on Nov. 7. A post shared by Miss Universe UAE (@missuniverseuae) For Thursday’s announcement, the models were all dressed in covered gowns by Dubai-based label Amato Couture. On Wednesday, pageant organizers revealed that former Miss Lebanon Nadine Nassib Njeim would be on the jury panel for the event. A post shared by Miss Universe UAE (@missuniverseuae) In a video shared on the organization’s Instagram page, the 37-year-old Lebanese actress said: “I am very happy and honored to announce that I will be part of the official jury of Miss Universe UAE.” To join the pageant, participants had to be aged between 18 and 28, and live in the UAE. A post shared by Miss Universe UAE (@missuniverseuae) The committee includes founder and chief executive of Dubai’s Yugen Events, Josh Yugen, Dubai-based fashion designer Furne Amato, former British-Filipino beauty queen Maggie Wilson, philanthropist Alaf Meky, humanitarian Zel Ali, and general manager of Emaar, Sharihan Al-Mashary. To adhere to the region’s culture, organizers revealed at a recent press conference that the swimwear segment would be eliminated from the competition. The event will feature contestants giving a personal statement and displays of couture activewear and evening gowns. Miss Universe, which began in 1952, is the world’s biggest pageant. It was previously owned by former US president, Donald Trump.