DUBAI: Additional Middle East personalities could join the list of famous Arab figures on display at Madame Tussauds Dubai. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle “We listen to our customers; we listen to their feedback. So, we will always be updating the figures and enhancing the products,” Sanaz Kollsrud, general manager of Madame Tussauds Dubai, told Arab News. The museum opened its 25th wax attraction in the city on Oct.14, making it the brand’s first branch in the Middle East.   The famous attraction has a total of 16 figures from the Middle East region. These include talents from the music industry — such as Lebanese singers Nancy Ajram and Maya Diab — and athletes that were made exclusively for the branch in Dubai. “At the moment, Madame Tussauds has 25 wax attractions around the world, including the US, Europe, and Asia. I’m sure that the brand will look at opportunities to expand at a later stage,” Kollsrud said. Dubai has been a perfect choice for the Middle East branch, as it is a global tourist destination. The general manager said the museum is also located near a major attraction in the city, Ain Dubai, and is surrounded by a variety of retail and dining options.   When asked how the museum chooses the figures it wants to display, Kollsrud said there is a lot of research behind figure selection, including customer research. “It took about 18 months to put together a figure list, during which we looked at the popularity of the celebrities regionally and globally, especially within the UAE,” she said. To keep the figures clean and protected, a team of artists works daily to make sure the statues are in perfect shape, the general manager said.   She added that a team of 20 artists completes one wax figure within four to seven months. They even insert real hair strands, which can cost $190,605. "There is a sitting involved with the talent, where they come and we do around 500 measurements, including head to toe," Kollsrud said. The tourist destination consists of seven themed rooms and includes over 60 lifelike wax figures.   