DUBAI: French-Algerian actress Sofia Boutella has released her first look at upcoming World War II drama series “SAS: Rogue Heroes,” a six-parter from “Peaky Blinders” creator Steven Knight. For the latest updates, follow us on Instagram @arabnews.lifestyle The series, which has officially wrapped up filming in the UK and in Morocco, is based on Ben Macintyre’s novel of the same name and tells the true events of the formation of the Special Air Service, the British special forces unit during World War II. It is described as a dramatized account of “how the world’s greatest Special Forces unit, the SAS, was formed under extraordinary circumstances in the darkest days of World War II.” The Algiers-born actress takes on the role of Eve, who is one of the series’ leads.  A post shared by Sofia Boutella (@sofisia7) “Very excited to share the first look at ‘SAS Rogue Heroes,’” wrote the dancer-turned-actress on Instagram alongside a photo of her character. The cast also includes Egyptian star Amir El-Masry. The actor is a two-time BAFTA nominee who made his film debut in Egyptian cinema, following advice given to him by screen legend Omar Sharif. The star-studded cast also includes “Sex Education” actor Connor Swindells; “Skins” star Jack O’Connell; Dominic West, who will appear in the newest season of “The Crown; “Game of Thrones” star Alfie Allen; and English actor Tom Glynn-Carney.   Directed by Tom Shankland, “SAS: Rogue Heroes” will air on BBC One and BBC iPlayer in 2022. The “Atomic Blonde” actress is one of Hollywood’s busiest stars. Boutella has had at least one movie hit on the big screen since 2016, and is showing no signs of slowing down. Though she just wrapped up the filming for “SAS: Rogue Heroes,” it’s back to work soon for Boutella, who is set to begin shooting horror flick “Cuckoo” and sci-fi comedy “Alpha Gang,” which are both in the pre-production phase. Today, the US-based actress, who pressed pause on her dancing career to pursue acting, has a number of Hollywood blockbusters under her belt, including “Fahrenheit 451,” “Atomic Blonde” and “The Mummy,” where she starred alongside Tom Cruise. 