Some of the biggest names in women’s golf will head to Saudi Arabia in November for back-to-back Aramco Saudi Ladies International and Aramco Team Series Jeddah tournaments. The two events will take place at Royal Greens Golf & Country Club in nearby King Abdullah Economic City and, together, form the Kingdom’s debut Women in Sport Season. Leading players on the Ladies European Tour will compete for a total of $2 million in the space of a fortnight. First up is the Aramco Saudi Ladies International (Nov. 4-7), presented by the Public Investment Fund, in which almost 100 players will go head to head for a share of $1 million in prize money. The final of four Aramco Team Series events — launched on the Ladies European Tour for the first time this year — will take place from Nov. 10-12, with the Jeddah leg following tournaments in London, Spain and New York. The new format sees three professional players team up with an amateur player and then compete for a share of $800,000, with the best individual scorers also battling for a $200,000 prize fund. The individual category of this month’s New York leg was won by England’s Charley Hull, who returns to Saudi Arabia after competing in last year’s debut tournament. Speaking after her win in New York, the 25-year-old Hull said: “I’ve loved the Aramco Team Series and played in every event so far — London, Spain, New York and Saudi Arabia is now next. I can’t wait. I played in Saudi last year and thought it was a great event. The golf course was lovely, so I’m really looking forward to getting back.” She added: “The Aramco Team Series isn’t just a great event for the women on tour, but also for the amateurs who get to play and the fans who get to watch. It’s a lot of fun. For me, it will be great to get back to Saudi, especially with the support Golf Saudi and Aramco are giving the sport. Since last year’s first event I’ve heard that a lot of young girls out in Saudi Arabia are taking up golf, which is so good to hear.” Joining Hull at Royal Greens will be Denmark’s Emily Kristine Pedersen, who recorded a clean sweep in the Kingdom last year when she won the Aramco Saudi Ladies International presented by Public Investment Fund, then both the team and individual elements in what was then the Saudi Ladies Team International, the precursor to the Aramco Team Series. “Last year was such a fantastic experience for me in Saudi Arabia,” Pedersen said. “I loved the course, the weather, the people were so nice, and it was just a great 10 days. I obviously have such fond memories so going back will certainly be special for me.” “The Aramco Saudi Ladies International felt like a big moment in women’s golf — something the Aramco Team Series has really built on this year, building our game even further. I’ve really enjoyed all three ATS events so far this season, and I know the final one in Jeddah will be awesome, too.” Other names taking part are England’s Annabel Dimmock, Anna Nordqvist of Sweden, Minjee Lee of Australia and Georgia Hall, also of England.