JEDDAH: The Red Sea International Film Festival, which is set to take place from Dec. 6-15, announced its first slate of shorts on Monday that will be showcased at the festival’s inaugural edition. The 15 announced titles are part of the New Saudi/New Cinema Shorts program, which showcases up-and-coming Saudi filmmakers, displaying a careful curation of animated, documentary, and fiction shorts. Edouard Waintrop, artistic director of the festival, said: “New Saudi/New Cinema is an opportunity for the Red Sea Film Festival to showcase the diverse aspects of Saudi society, celebrating the creativity and originality of emerging Saudi filmmakers. The Shorts program in particular allows unique and diverse work to be displayed, and we’re looking forward to sharing these works with local and international audiences.” Mohyee Qari, program manager of the festival, said: “Within New Saudi/New Cinema, audiences will be able to find stories told by ambitious, young, enthusiastic directors who have the potential to take Saudi cinema to the next level. Some stories will introduce viewers to the truth of modern-day local cultures, while others will take audiences back to the 1960s or to an imagined future of the 2090s. Common among all these fantastic chosen shorts is the chance for audiences to experience stories and life from a distinctly new Saudi perspective.” In “My Dear Fiction,” directed by and starring Ahsan Minhas, a man narrates a story about heartbreak’s comedic and dark sides and how one can persevere following the experience. “Professional Scammer,” directed by and starring Abdul Hameed Hassan Alam, tells the story of an unemployed man who tries to steal from people until he finds that fate has something in store for him that he never expected. “The Window of Life” is a short and personal documentary in which director Hayder Dawood raises questions on the broader meanings of life by exploring the movement inside vehicles.  The 15 announced titles are part of the New Saudi/New Cinema Shorts program, which showcases up-and-coming Saudi filmmakers, displaying a careful curation of animated, documentary, and fiction shorts. “Hallucinated,” directed by Mohammed Basalamah, tells the story of Moayd, a deliveryman struggling with insomnia. As his condition worsens, he becomes unable to distinguish between reality and his hallucinations. In “Little Bird,” directed by Khalid Fahad, protagonist Malik lives alone in the world, facing fateful challenges in his life. “The Palm Witch,” directed by Hala Al-Haid, tells the story of two friends who set off in the old city of Riyadh looking for their lost pet as an evil night witch comes after them. “Whisper Down the Lane,” directed by Raghad Al-Barqi, is an experimental animated short film exploring the concepts of communication, self-destruction, and the domino effect. It takes the audience on a linear journey, following a string of interconnected phone calls between five individuals that eventually escalate to a bigger conflict. “Red Circle,” directed by and starring Abdulaziz Sarhan, is an inspirational and motivating short about a Middle Eastern man who has difficulty telling his simple story to his English storytelling class. “Panting,” directed by Hassan Saeed, tells the story of Marco, who finds himself in a maze between reality and virtual reality as he seeks to meet in person a girl he encountered on social media. “Covida, the 19th,” directed by Omar Al-Omirat, offers a different perspective on life during the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) pandemic: A family survives quarantine, with their lives ultimately improving. “Al-Rufea,” directed by Abbas Al-Shuwayfie, is a documentary that explores the intimacy of community through an old neighborhood. “The Jakar,” directed by Abdulaziz Saleh, tells the story of an annual boat race held over 100 years ago before coming to an end with the construction of Jeddah’s Islamic Seaport. Today, the boats are docked at what is sometimes referred to as “Al-Sanabeek Cemetery.” The exciting story is told from the perspectives of the grandchildren of one of the race’s founders and the people of the port-side district. “The Day I Lost Myself,” directed by and starring Rami Al-Zayer, tells the story of Salem, who is having a “quarter-life crisis.” Before an interview, he finds himself stuck in an elevator with an older man, where something happens that changes the course of his life. “Acceptance Land,” directed by Mansour Assad, is set in 2096, in a post-World War III world. A homeless maid struggles to take care of a child in a time during which the color of their clothes represents who they are. “Hide and Seek,” directed by Mohammad Helal, centers on a girl chased by a demon who makes her friends search for her.