LONDON: Newcastle United interim manager Graeme Jones believes his players have provided themselves a base on which to build a Premier League revival. Jones, taking his first game since stepping in to replace Steve Bruce this week, saw United claim a 1-1 draw at Crystal Palace, despite conceding 75 percent possession in the Premier League encounter. Jones, though, knows that Rome was not built in a day and thinks United showed enough in the 90 minutes against a lower top flight rival to prove they are up for the fight to remain in the Premier League. “We came here to win. That was the intention. So, the next best thing is a point,” said Jones, whose side remains 19th in the table with just four points from nine games. “Off the ball I was pleased with the organization and the standard. We limited Palace to one chance in the first half. In the second half they had two. It is a base, a start. "I would like us to be better on the ball. But we know it doesn't come overnight - it takes time. We need to tighten up a little bit, not concede as many goals. We have to improve. We have to be better. But I have got to give the lads credit. As I have said, loads of work to do. But at least it is somewhere to start.” Newcastle-born Jones is a fan as well as a coach of his boyhood club. He was on the terraces when club legends like Kevin Keegan and Alan Shearer were scoring goals for the Magpies. And, despite seeing goals from legends of days gone by at United, Jones believes the one he witnessed from Callum Wilson on Saturday - an acrobatic overhead kick - was one of the best ever. Jones said: “It is right up there. With Cal, he is a unique striker. In training he is a good finisher, he works and is a fantastic professional. On a matchday, there is a stimulation, something comes out of him where he has the mentality to perform for Newcastle United. He is the best matchday professional I have worked with. To pull that out of the hat certainly helped us.” As well as top scorer Wilson's strike, the team's mentality has also pleased Jones. “You have to respect a point in the Premier League. We needed to start with that base. We needed defensive solidity to give Callum and Allan (Saint-Maximin) a chance. Every game will be treated on its merits - I can't tell you the shape against Chelsea next week. One thing I can't change is the mentality. Everyone fought for each other - that was pleasing.”