LONDON: The UK shares concerns over Iran’s nuclear program with Arab countries, a government official said on Tuesday.
	Tehran has stopped honoring some of its commitments under a 2015 nuclear deal and has been holding up negotiations aimed at reviving the landmark accord that scales back its nuclear program in exchange for sanctions relief, sparking concern from the UN nuclear watchdog agency.
	The comments were made during a meeting in London between the UK Minister for Middle East and North Africa in the Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office, James Cleverly, and Ahmed Aboul Gheit, secretary-general of the Arab League.
	The meeting dealt with developments in the region, including Iran, Syria and Libya, where Cleverly affirmed his country supports the Libyan political process. I met too with @arableague_gs Aboul Gheit, to discuss recent developments in the region, including Iran, Libya and Syria. The Arab League shares our concerns over Iran’s nuclear programme and, like us, also supports the political process in Libya. pic.twitter.com/ZyCWgLEDAA — James Cleverly (@JamesCleverly) October 19, 2021 Earlier on Tuesday, Cleverly met with Egyptian Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry, where he praised Egypt’s role as “a key mediator in regional conflicts, and a leading partner on climate” change.
	He also congratulated Shoukry on Egypt’s nomination to host the next UN climate change conference (COP27), adding he looked forward to President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi attendance at the upcoming COP26 conference in Glasgow next month, and his meeting with Prime Minister Boris Johnson.
	“I also thanked Shoukry for Egypt’s ongoing engagement in Hamas-Israeli talks,” which “played a leading role in securing the cease-fire,” Cleverly said.
	The UK and Egypt also agreed on the importance of Libya sticking to its elections timetable, he added. I also thanked FM Shoukry for 's ongoing engagement in Hamas-Israeli talks. Egypt played a leading role in securing the ceasefire. The UK & Egypt agree on the importance of #Libya sticking to its elections timetable. pic.twitter.com/tySK8gzgN6 — James Cleverly (@JamesCleverly) October 19, 2021 (With AFP)