Arab News has launched a new football podcast that will look to tackle all things Newcastle United after the recent Saudi-backed takeover of the club. The weekly show, Black & White, is hosted by radio and podcast presenter Geordie Pete and Arab News Sports Editor Ali Khaled, and will cover played and upcoming matches, transfer developments, historical games and events and all news relating to the club majority holder PIF. Every week, the hosts will also interview high-profile guests — such as former players, coaches and celebrities — relating to Newcastle and their rivals. Joining Geordie Pete and Khaled in Episode 1 was former Newcastle player Tyneside legend Lee Clark, now a football manager who has coached several teams in the UK and Africa.   In the show Clark spoke of his delight at the takeover and how it will rejuvenate the club, as well as the long-term effects it will have on the development of the stadium, training facilities and surrounding areas. Clark revealed to Black & White that he had been invited to St. James’ Park by the new owners to watch the first post-takeover match against Tottenham Hotspur, something that had not happened under the previous regime. The courtesy was extended to a number of Clark’s former teammates and club legends, and the invitation remains an open one, a move hugely appreciated by the players as the club looks to rebuild its relationship with them and the supporters. On a more serious note, Clark spoke of his grave concern for the team’s current position of 19th in the Premier League table, having failed to win any of the first nine matches and only managing four draws. With Champions League winners Chelsea the next visitors to St. James’ Park on Saturday night, the matches are not getting any easier, and Clark is adamant that regardless of who is in the coach’s role, Newcastle must start picking up points ahead of January’s transfer window if they are to avoid being in a relegation battle in the second half of the season. Clark and the hosts also reminisced about his time playing for Kevin Keegan’s team of the 1990s, who earned the name of “The Entertainers” for their swashbuckling brand of football, gifted players and high-scoring matches — particularly a famous 3-0 win against Liverpool in 1993, which announced the arrival of a new power in the early days of the English Premier League.