DUBAI: Twitter’s virtual #TwitterGamePlan unveiled insights and features for brands and agencies on why, when and how to use the global platform. Among the insights shared during the event this month were the growth numbers of the platform, including a 38 percent year-on-year increase in tweet engagement and a 34 percent year-on-year increase in video watch time. In the past two years, the platform has tripled its growth of monetizable daily active users. A recent Twitter survey also revealed that audiences are highly receptive to brands on the platform and that a 10 percent increase in conversation can increase brand sales revenue by up to 3 percent. Moreover, 91 percent of respondents said that they are looking for new brand launches on the platform. “They (users) are not on Twitter to passively scroll through photos,” said Nour Osman, agency development manager, Twitter MENA. “Rather they are open, engaged and ready to discover what’s happening.” As a result, people on Twitter also drive results, with brands twice as likely to hit their key performance indicators if their launch campaign is on Twitter. Launching on Twitter also leads to an average 83 percent lift in ad recall, an 18 percent lift in brand awareness and a 15 percent lift in message association. The platform also made a case for reaching affluent audiences across key demographics, with data showing that Twitter users are 35 percent more likely than non-users to be affluent consumers, and over half (52 percent) of all tweets in the last year came from Gen Z audiences, said Osman. * Tweet engagement has grown by 38 percent year-on-year. * Video watch time has increased by 34 percent year-on-year. * Number of monetizable daily active users has tripled in the past two years. * 91 percent of Twitter users are looking for new brand launches on the platform. * Launching on Twitter leads to an average 83 percent lift in ad recall, 18 percent lift in brand awareness and 15 percent lift in message association. When it comes to content approach, Twitter advised brands to use multiple formats, with a Nielsen Brand Effect study showing that the use of more than three ad formats increases the probability of campaign success. Fahdah Al-Arifi, CEO of digital marketing agency Nawafth, gave the example of a recent campaign that focused on building awareness and driving investment. Knowing that 70 percent of Saudis use Twitter, the agency used the platform’s Video Card featuring a call to action, which drove audiences to the client’s website. “Through the campaign we attracted 7,000 new investor registrations, resulting in 32 new POs totaling SR52 million ($14 million) for SMEs,” she said. Maksim Kaljakin, customer success partner, Twitter EMEA, outlined the below key takeaways for success on the platform. Remember that connecting with the conversation is not simply diving in on a new topic because everybody else is. Do your research, and join it naturally once you and your brand are comfortable with the topic. Set your campaign objectives in advance, as this will guide you when selecting ad formats and content creation. Make sure to test every aspect of the campaign to find a sweet spot before running it, and optimize campaigns using the performance campaign ABC’s: Audience, bids and creatives.