RIYADH: Saudi Arabia’s Cabinet reiterated its call for calm, de-escalation and preserving political and economic gains, and said it was following up on the latest developments in Sudan.
	Sudanese military leader General Abdel Fattah Al-Burhan dissolved the government and the Sovereign Council on Monday and the prime minister and other ministers have been detained.
	The Kingdom said it “supports everything that aims to protect unity among all political components, and emphasized its continued support for the Sudanese people for security, stability, growth and prosperity.”
	The statement came following a weekly Council of Ministers meeting that was chaired virtually by King Salman from NEOM.
	At the beginning of the session, the king briefed the ministers on the content of a letter he received from Bahrain’s King Hamad, the letter he sent to South Sudanese President Salva Kiir, and the phone call with UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres.
	The Cabinet hailed the success of the Saudi Green Initiative Forum and the Middle East Green Initiative Summit in presenting a package of qualitative initiatives to protect the environment, face the challenges of climate change, reduce its negative effects, create the necessary infrastructure to reduce carbon emissions, and strengthening the level of regional coordination in this field.
	The Council of Ministers reviewed a number of topics and regional and international developments during the meeting.
	The ministers welcomed a UN Security Council statement condemning the Iran-backed Houthi militia’s attacks on the Kingdom’s territory and civilian facilities, and said it was an important boost to the Kingdom’s efforts to successfully end the Yemeni crisis and reach a comprehensive political solution.   The Cabinet reiterated the Kingdom’s firm position in support of the Palestinian cause and finding a just solution that secures the legitimate rights of the Palestinian people. It also reiterated a call to the UN Economic and Financial Committee of the necessity to compel Israel to comply with international resolutions and laws, end the occupation and complete a withdrawal from Occupied Palestinian Territories.
	The ministers also discussed the Kingdom’s statement at an international ministerial conference on supporting the stability of Libya, which was held in the capital, Tripoli, about its support for international efforts to preserve its unity and the security of its territories. Saudi Arabia praised the steps taken by the Libyan authority toward achieving a unified sovereign state that enjoys security, stability and development.
	The Cabinet authorized the sports minister to sign a draft memorandum of understanding (MoU) with Qatar, the minister of Islamic affairs to sign an agreement with Greece, and the tourism minister to sign an MoU with the UK.
	It also authorized the minister of environment, water and agriculture to sign a draft cooperation agreement with the UN Convention to Combat Desertification, and approved a license for Oman’s Sohar International Bank to open a branch in the Kingdom.