DUBAI: The Dubai Moonlight Classic by EGA will put some of the best female golfers in the world under the spotlight when they tee off on the Faldo Course at Emirates Golf Club from Oct. 27to 29 in the only day-to-night tournament in world golf. With the tournament free to enter for spectators, here are five reasons to watch the on-course action: 1. Sibling rivalry Thai sisters Ariya and Moriya Jutanugarn are in red-hot form this season, the pair winning the Dow Great Lakes Bay Invitational in July thanks to an impressive fourball 59 on the final day. Aside from the shared win, younger sibling Ariya also claimed victory in the Honda LPGA Thailand and posted seven top-10 finishes this year. The 25-year-old is also a two-time Major winner, while older sister Moriya, 27, has six top-10 finishes to her name this year. 2. Golfing greats Even to those who know little to nothing about golf, Dame Laura Davies will need no introduction. With a staggering 85 professional wins, the Englishwoman is a bona fide golfing legend and one of the game’s all-time greats. What is more, she plays golf with a smile on her face. Scottish golfing legend Catriona Matthew hit the headlines earlier this year when she successfully captained the European Team to a Solheim Cup title defense. The 15-13 win over the US team at the Inverness Club in the face of a partisan home support in Toledo, Ohio gave Team Europe back-to-back wins, and the 52-year-old ranks the result right up there with her 11 professional tournament wins. 3. The next generation While Matthew and Davies have seen it all, Chiara Noja is at the other end of the spectrum. The 14-year-old, playing her second Dubai Moonlight Classic, officially turned professional on the eve of the tournament, marking a major milestone in what could well be a promising career. The Dubai-based golfer could learn a thing or two from current Race to Costa del Sol leader, Atthaya Thitikul. Still only 18, the Thai sensation became the youngest ever golfer to win a professional tournament at the Ladies European Thailand Championship in 2017 where she triumphed aged just 14 years, four months, and 19 days old. 4. Indian inspiration There is not one but two Indian Olympian stars in the field at this year’s event. Aditi Ashok, a three-time winner on the Ladies European Tour, narrowly missed out on a medal at this year’s Games as she finished fourth in Tokyo. The 23-year-old will be one to watch on the Faldo for sure; she finished tied sixth at last year’s Dubai Desert Classic just two strokes behind eventual winner Minjee Lee. Compatriot and left-hander Diksha Dagar, who received a late entry to this year’s Games, is a two-time winner on the LET. The 20-year-old also represented India at the 2017 Summer Deaflympics where she secured a silver medal. 5. Race to the top It is not just the coveted Dubai Moonlight Classic title that is up for grabs at the Faldo – the tournament also counts toward the Race to Costa del Sol, the season-long competition to crown the No. 1 player on the LET. With a $290,000 bonus pool for the top three finishers, there is plenty at stake.  Current leader Thitikul will be looking to further consolidate her grip on this year’s title and hoping for a third tournament win this season, but the Thai sensation will be joined by nearest challengers Sanna Nuutinen, Stephanie Kyriacou, Pia Babnik, and Marianne Skarpnord as the entire top five and eight of the top 10 tee it up at the Faldo.